---
video_id: FCAYSaw_FG0
title: "How to Collapse Time and Become Your Future Self"
channel: "David Ghiyam"
duration: 1710
view_count: 14672
upload_date: 20260501
tags: ["David Ghiyam", "Kabbalah", "Spiritual wisdom", "Soul correction", "Light of the Creator", "Ancient spiritual wisdom", "Manifestation teachings", "Spiritual protection", "Spiritual healing", "Divine timing", "Spiritual success", "Spiritual awakening", "Energy and consciousness", "Spirituality", "Law of attraction", "Self help", "Spiritual guidance", "soulmate", "purpose", "Abundance", "Love", "Relationship", "Mindset", "Manifestation", "Soul Contract", "Women Power", "Evil Eye", "Consciousness", "How to Manifest", "Healing", "Emotional Clarity"]
thumbnail: https://i.ytimg.com/vi/FCAYSaw_FG0/maxresdefault.jpg
---

Welcome everyone to the DVG podcast where we discuss the energy of the week and types of challenges that we might be going through and ancient spiritual tools from the sages how to handle them great miracles in our lives. I first want to start by saying for those of you who are enjoying the podcast and enjoying my content and desire to learn deeper, I have many master classes that dive deeper into the wisdom of Cabala, on love and relationships, on abundance, on miracles, and various topics that I think you'll find very interesting on my website. I also have David AI which has become one of the most profound and leading AI coaching platforms in the world. You can basically talk to David AI or text and learn about your soul correction and a pathway of how to elevate your consciousness or handle any challenge that's going on in your life. So try it out. I personally use it almost every day and it begins to teach me lessons that even I forget. gives me the motivation, the mantra, the meditations that I need in that exact moment to handle the challenges that are in my life. So what is the energy of this week? What is it that we can all expect and strength from above that we can get? There's a concept from the sages about life and death. What is life? Life is, as the cabalists call it, a connection to the light of the creator. How do you know you're experiencing life? There's continuity. There's a blessing. There is no lack. What is death? Death is the end of something. All of us are always trying to avoid death. In one way or another, we don't want things to end. We don't want the good times to end. We don't want our relationships to end. We don't want our abundance to leave us and to end. In life, we're always trying to avoid death and connect to life. But when our soul came to this world, it was faced with a test. For whatever reason, we are attracted to instant gratification. We are attracted to things that might feel good in the moment but hurt us later. Why is that? Why is it that a person is attracted when it comes to love to something that may not be good for them? Why is it that everybody says that they're attracted to someone who's unavailable? Why not be attracted to someone who's available? Why not be attracted to someone who's very healthy for you? Why not be attracted to someone that maybe at this exact moment isn't exactly what you want, but you know longterm will be good for you? Why is it that when it comes to food, when it comes to social media, we are attracted and we feel compelled to engage in it knowing that tomorrow we're going to be upset with ourselves, knowing that we've just destroyed our sleep, we've destroyed our body, but who cares, right? We want to enjoy that moment right now. Why are we attracted to that? So when our body came to this world and became a vessel for the soul, the way that it was meant to earn the light of the creator was it had to overcome the body consciousness. And the creator said that your body will experience death. Right? We know that every single person in this world dies at some point. The body dies, the body stops. The body is buried or in some some religions and traditions burned. But the soul is immortal and the soul moves on. So what do we know about that? We know that the body is ultimately connected to the energy of death. And if it's connected to death in the future, it means it's connected to death now because time cabalistically does not exist. And I really want each one of us to to hone in on that. If something is going to happen in the future, it means that that energy exists right now as well. If you're going to be a millionaire in a year, it means you're a millionaire right now. If you're going to find your soulmate in 3 years, it means that your energy of your soulmate is with you right now, even though you don't see that person. How long something takes is our free will and completely up to us. If right now your destiny is to obtain something in 3 years, you can collapse that time and experience it in the next hour. You technically could. And they say just say that that is absolutely possible and that is our free will. People don't know that. People don't know how to collapse time. But Cabal is explaining how we do that. The body consciousness which is connected to death is connected to time. The soul is above time. Soul is immortal. So even when the body dies, the soul continues. What does that mean? It means that in this world, whoever aligns themsel with the body consciousness for will lose. You'll experience death. You'll experience loss. Any time in your life when you've lost something, when you've gone through pain and suffering, when you've gone through some kind of major darkness in your life, it's because to that extent you were relying or dependent or or feeding, worshiping the body consciousness. But those who are connected to the soul understand what the soul needs. Do you know what your soul needs? Cabala is teaching us what does your soul need? And you wake up every morning, you're saying, "What does my soul want?" Not what my body wants. My body right now wants to be self-destructive. My body wants to text the X. My body wants to eat something that I know might just feel good in my pallet at this moment, but I'm going to have a crash in two hours. I'm going to be tired. That's what my body wants. The soul's like, "Wait one second. I want an elevated consciousness." The soul says, "I always want to do what the giving thing to do is the giving thing. So what if this person hurt you? So what if something was taken away from you? But what if if you have every reason in the world to be vindictive and revengeful? The soul doesn't want revenge. The soul wants giving. The soul wants unity. The soul wants you to rise above all that nonsense and find peace and find blessings. But the body says no. Body says, "I want to be right." The body says, "I want to feel good now." The body says, "Now I want to feel good. Who cares what happens tomorrow morning? Take that extra shot of tequila. Take that extra hour and doom scroll. You're feeling lonely. You're feeling needy. So, start reaching out, texting people for energy. Even texting your friends cuz you want to make a plan cuz you're needy and lonely. That's body consciousness. Every time you lose control, that's body consciousness. Every time there's someone else controlling you, that's body consciousness. Every time you're doing something to get somebody to like you, that's body consciousness. Are you trying to do that right now? Are you trying to get somebody to like you? Are you trying to get somebody to see you? Have you ever seen someone you like maybe at a restaurant or or an event and then you start walking by them? Or you start changing the way you act, the way you look, the you go put on a little bit extra makeup or you try to fix your hair, you fix yourself because you want them to notice you or like you. That's body consciousness. You made this guy, this this woman your god. If you're obsessing over someone, obsessing, obsessing, when is he going to call? When is she going to notice me? I had a friend who was recently telling me, "There's this girl that keeps cancelling on me. And now I have another date with her after two months ago. She canceled on me. I cannot miss this date because I have to have her." And then she cancels again on him. I have to have her. What's going on here? Why you obsessing over this girl? Who is she? Just cuz she doesn't want you, you want her? You making this girl your God? What about your God? What about God? What about actual God? No. No. No. Yeah. Yeah. I I I believe in God and I and I do my prayers and my meditations and you know, I I go to places of worship and then that's that's for Saturday, that's for Sunday. But when this girl appears in my life and she breadcrumbs me, she becomes my new god. I now worship in the church of this girl. I'm obsessed. and then she ends up liking you back and you're not so obsessed anymore and then you find a new god. That's what we do. We're just jumping from gods, totally enslaved by the body consciousness. But when you are enslaved in the body consciousness, you're going to experience death of some kind. Death of the relationship, the death of your energy, the death of your certainty, the death of everything that we are all looking for. You know why the marketing in your company is not working? Because in some other part of your life, you're obsessed over this girl. So you're connected to body consciousness. You're not connected to the light of the creator. So in this other part of your life, your business, your marketing plan just is not working. Yeah. For whatever reason, meta is not picking up your ads. Customers are not buying your product. Why? because they don't know exactly why they don't want to buy your product, but they feel the energy of death. Because that day you were obsessing over that girl or that guy who didn't give you the love you wanted, so now you're doubling down trying to get it. That's death. So yeah, of course, the energy of death permeates every part of our lives. Your customers will feel it. Your parents will feel it. Your friends will feel it. You're walking down the street, people are going to see the aura of death even though they have no clue what you're doing behind the scenes. You know what you're doing. You're losing control and power to people. King David said, "Every person in this world will disappoint you." But what does he mean by that? It means that when you depend on a person, you're depending on the energy of death. So what should we do? Not depend on people, not have relationships with people. Absolutely. We should absolutely have relationships with people, but don't put the cart before the horse. The creator comes first, the people come second. And whenever you feel that you are losing your power to someone else, losing it to someone's approval, you're afraid to speak up to your boss, you're afraid to speak up to a colleague, you're afraid to speak up to a friend, you're afraid to speak up in your relationship about something you want or something that's not making you happy, you're afraid, you're afraid of what they're going to say, you're afraid to rock the boat, you're afraid to look ungrateful. You're afraid of confrontation. It's like the Pisces doesn't say anything and then has quiet silent resentment. So you're you're worshiping another god and you're connected to death consciousness. But it's not easy to rise above your body. Always ask yourself, what what does my soul want? Another way of asking is what would the creator want me to do now? What does the creator want me to do? And when we really ask that question, you will receive divine inspiration. The creator will guide you. There's always a quiet voice that tells you what to do. But then there's a loud voice of the body that says, "I need my fix." The body wants its body gets that lust. It says that there's an angel. There's an angel called Ru. That's the name of the angel. And it comes to make you lose control of your sexual energy. And then you start lusting after things and daydreaming about soulmates and like this person is for me. No, that person's for me. Oh my god, I know for sure this person is for me. I'm addicted to their their approval. I'm addicted to their energy. I need them. And that's called And whenever you feel like you can't control yourself, you need to call that person or reach out to that person. You know that 10:30 p.m. text. Hey you up. Hey you up. Has has has H has anyone ever texted hey you up and it was from the soul consciousness. I don't think so. I don't I don't I never heard a hey you up from the soul. Almost always hey you up is body consciousness. Is it not? I'm body I'm needy. I'm lonely. I need something. Hey you up. Every text we send, every conversation we have, where's it coming from? You ever been in like a group of people talking and everyone's talking about something smart and you want to look smart too? So you try to say something, you try to solve a problem and just coming from a place that you want to look smart. Hickck, that's total ick. When people have the it's because they spell death. It says in the Talmud that the sages used to walk by people and one time the sage was walking with a student and said we need to make a detour. Let's not walk down this path. And the student said why? He said because there's a person uh sitting there and I smell the energy of death. And his student says you can smell death. How do you smell death? I don't smell anything. And he said, "I can smell when people are picking their body consciousness." And because the body eventually becomes a corpse, whenever someone is picking their body over their soul, whenever someone is needy, whenever someone is reactive, whenever someone doesn't have certainty in their lives, and they're dwelling in doubt, fear, and shame, and they're choosing their body, I smell the smell of a corpse, and it is so strong. I cannot walk by that person. We must walk around them. The sages used to have a physical and spiritual sense of smell. But you know what? We're all very intuitive, especially in our generation. We feel things. We may not smell them, but we feel them. We feel them. And you walk by someone, you don't know why you don't feel good. But the truth is, at that moment, probably they're thinking about their ex or they're thinking about this business deal that's falling apart. and they had their sights set on the commission they were going to make and the money they were going to make and the the things they were going to buy for themselves and the the payments they were going to make, the vacation they were going to have and now it's falling apart and now they're worried and they're having doubts and when you walk by them they stink. They stink like a corpse. So I ask you, where in your life are you giving your power to the outside to a person? Maybe your business is controlling. You're just so obsessed. Your business is sucking your energy. Maybe you're losing your power in your relationship. You're coming home to your relationship and you feel drained. It means that you're losing your power. Why are you with someone who's draining you? I'm not saying don't be with them, but at least ask the question, how are you showing up as the effect as the body consciousness? What are you doing in this relationship is causing you to be drained? Are you not setting boundaries? Are you not saying what you desire? Are you just playing a role to appease everyone around you, to appease your family, to appease your culture, to appease your religion? You know how many people I talk to? I ask I'm asking them, "Why are you doing that?" They're like, "Because if I don't do it, my religion will shame me. My community will shame me. My friends won't accept me." That's so that's the life you want to live. your goal when you die, when you go out to the upper worlds, they're going to ask you, "What did you achieve?" You're going to say, "I achieved not being judged as much. That's what I achieved." I have a plaque on my wall. Imagine getting a plaque that says, "I got first place in the not getting judged that much sport. Look at the most successful people in the world. They're the most judged people. Everybody judges them. I don't know a I don't know a rich person, a powerful person, a political person that everybody's not not judging. People who reveal light, people who create, people who build new things that bring value to the world will get judged. And so if you're afraid of getting judged, you're always connected to death. You're always connected to death. And you know, one of the things I've learned in my own life and I I desire it for all of us is eventually we all will start listening to the voice inside of us. You can listen to other people's opinions. You can learn from other people. Ask for advice from everyone, but ultimately bring that in. Synthesize that data and make your own decision. Do not react because someone told you to do something or someone's pressuring you to do something or you feel bad that people are going to judge you if you don't do it. Think about that for a moment. Don't you want freedom? Are you ready to have freedom in your life? Are you ready to have life? Or you want to just live your whole life feeding the animal part of your body? Always walking on eggshells and making sure everybody likes me and approves of me. And you know, I want to have this thing so that people see how good I am, how cool I am. I was at an event and every time I asked somebody what they do, it was always this long, long thing they said. They said, "I'm the chief market. I'm a I'm a fractional CMO for tech software companies that specialize in AI training." And I'm thinking to myself, "Okay, so you're a consultant and you're in between jobs. That's that's pretty much what you just told me. Why you got to say all this whole line?" And then they give me a whole pitch. Usually they say the first they give the line they go and now what I'm focused on in my life is finding companies. I'm like I'm like bro I didn't ask you that. I just said what do you do? I just said what do you do? But you can feel like they're in this position where they have to prove themselves and explain themselves. Right? How many times you feel like you got to explain yourself? You got to explain yourself all the time. Let's say you're late. You got to explain yourself. Oh my god, there was traffic and there was this and there was that. Why are you explaining yourself? Just say I was late. I'm sorry. I remember 15 years ago when I was late for something and I told my teacher that I was late and and then and I started to explain myself but there was traffic you understand there was an accident on the 405 freeway all these things and he said to me he said listen you were late all the reasons you were late there was an accident on the freeway so my teacher's like let me ask you a question why did you will that accident into existence The lesson was even if there was an accident on the freeway, it was probably because something you did to cause that accident so that you would be late. Meaning there was something that was deficient in your consciousness that the creator even put you in such a position. The creator would have arranged for you to leave earlier if you were meant to come on time or if you were ready to be on time. If you if if you had already prior in the day been of the right consciousness and connected to light, the creator, the creator would have made sure you're on time. It was just very powerful because we're always making excuses and, you know, pointing the finger at other things. I do it, too. But it disconnects us from the light, life. It disconnects us from life. We all want miracles. We all want blessings. We are all tired of having something and then losing it, falling in love, and then having our heart broken, enjoying something and then not being able to enjoy it anymore. Most people's lives are like chewing gum that after 45 seconds loses its flavor and then we needed another piece of gum and then it loses its flavor. If the creator gave you a piece of gum, it would never lose its flavor. It would be immortal. And to the extent that we are acting like the light of the creator and Cabala is teaching us how to do that. All the different steps of how to do that. And I always say please learn deeper. Please learn deeper the courses of Cabala. Please learn your infinite soul. Please learn the master classes. Learn the system of how to become like the light. Because when we are acting like the light, it's immortality. Technically, if a person was fully connected to the light of the creator, they would not die. They would not die. Somehow science would find a cure, some kind of stem cells, some kind of something something where people will be able to live forever once people start spiritually connecting to life, then the scientists will find a cure for longevity and immortality. But as long as the majority of our population is constantly addicted to things, the effect of things, needy of things, needy of people's approval, happy, sad, happy, sad, happy, sad, mood up, mood down, you know, a thousand people like you, you're happy. One person looks at you funny, you're sad and depressed, and you're thinking about them all day long. Why don't they like me? Why don't they like me? Why? I can't imagine why they wouldn't like me. What did I do wrong? I should fix it. I should talk to them. Maybe I'll maybe I'll reach out to them. Oh my god. Oh my god. Why don't they like me? So, can you imagine like like why are you so obsessed with them liking you? I don't know. I I don't like when people don't like me. I have to fix it. I have to fix it. I have to fix it right away. It's okay. If your partner's upset with you, okay, let them be upset. Like, why are you trying to fix it right away? I'm not saying I'm not saying shut down and be punitive. I'm saying if it's your personality to fix problems right away because you don't like people being upset, then pause. Pause. Don't let that control you. Sit in the pain for a moment. And if you're the kind of person that puts your head in the sand, that is very detached when problems happen, then maybe become more present. Always do the opposite of what your comfort zone is because your comfort zone is your body consciousness and your body consciousness is death. If you choose the uncomfortable, you will eventually be comfortable. If you choose the comfortable, you will eventually be uncomfortable. Let's do a meditation now to bring this energy down into our soul and into the week. I want you to take a moment and disconnect from all that's around you and connect fully to the energy that you feel in your soul. I want you to close your eyes, take a deep breath in, hold it, and exhale. I want you to feel the power of your soul, not your body, not your logical mind, not that part of you that is a scared boy or girl. who who maybe was once wounded who is still looking for a man's approval or a woman's approval or someone who is in a position of powers approval. I want you to connect to the infinite part of you. The part of you that has complete certainty. The part of you that is so present, never thinks about the past, never worries about the future. The part of you that can be in a room filled with important people, powerful people, and not feel insecure. Part of you that knows who you are. You know who you are. I want you to feel that. I want you to feel the version of you that is transcending time. I can see the future. If one day you know you're going to be a millionaire or a billionaire, I want you to feel that right now. I don't want you to feel that you don't have it, but then one day you will. I want you to feel like you have it right now. How would you show up in the world if you had that billion? How calm would you be? How certain would you be? Would you be needy? All these people that you're trying to get them to like you, would you need that? Not just money, but if you had wisdom, if you had power, if you had all the love, you had everything already. What would you do? You would never try to take from people. You would never text somebody at night, hey, you up? No. You would always be nourishing yourself from your own energy because you know you have it. So why don't you have it now? You do have it now. Forget about what the bank account says. Forget about if you're sleeping alone at night with no one next to you. It's all an illusion. You have your soulmate. You have the wealth. You have the power. You have the wisdom. You have the youth. You have the clarity. You have all the answers. You have a union with the light of the creator because you have chosen your soul. You have diminished the power of the body, but you still respect the body because it houses your soul. We don't want to kill the body. We want the body to be healthy. We want the body to be strong, but we don't want the body to control the soul. When you're hungry, who's in charge? Your body or your soul? Are you running to eat because you're starving? Or are you taking a step back and saying, "Soul, what do you want to eat? How do you want to eat? Let's walk with confidence towards the food. Let's not grab it. Let's share it first. Let's not overeat." So, what do you need? The soul will say, "I need just enough to have the highest level of energy. Anything more will hurt me. Anything less will hurt me. That is the way you eat for the soul. I want you to remember your power. Everyone in this world, so many people in this world often try to make us forget our power because they forgot theirs. Don't fall for that. Secretly, they hope that you thrive, that you remember who you are, because then you'll be able to elevate them as well. We need angels of light in this world, and you are an angel of light. The creator has chosen you to elevate the consciousness of the people around you, of your town, of your community, of your city, possibly the world. I don't know who you are. I don't know if you're the soul of a great descendant of a great soul and you don't know it yet. But what if you were? You're never going to feel the power of your soul if you're always needy of what people are thinking or saying or doing. If your phone controls you and you can't put your phone down, you're never going to know the power of your soul. You're never going to know who you're a descendant of. You're never going to be able to create miracles at will with your mind, with your words. This is our birthright. Each one of us, we are big souls. For whatever reason, the creator has blessed us with this wisdom. And we have a responsibility. Choose life.