---
video_id: MAnS3V4IzhY
title: "Chabad Rabbi: ‘Unconditional Love Doesn’t Exist’ (Marriage Truths No One Talks About)"
channel: "JeremyAwakens"
duration: 4823
view_count: 4483
upload_date: 20260428
tags: []
thumbnail: https://i.ytimg.com/vi/MAnS3V4IzhY/maxresdefault.jpg
---

You don't need the government to be married. The government needs you. >> That's what I'm saying. So, what would be your biggest piece of advice for me if I want to attract my soulmate into my life? >> Be definite about what your life is so that she knows what she's getting herself into. >> Do you think monogamy is what human beings were designed to experience? >> Monogamy is kind of a byproduct of intimacy. Intimacy demands monogamy. You're going to love me no matter what. Now that's unconditional love, right? >> Yeah, but there's no such thing. >> There's no such thing, right, Rabbi? I'm so glad you said this about psychedelics and Judaism. Were psychedelics put here by God for us to consume to expand our consciousness? >> Medically, definitely. But as a lifestyle, absolutely not. >> So, what is Judaism? >> Judaism is monogamy and intimacy with God. >> How many kids do you have, Rabbi? >> 14. >> You have 14 children? Seriously? so far >> with the same woman. >> Yes. It begs the question, are men and women equal? >> No way. People call my guest today the Tony Robbins of rabbis. And honestly, I get it because just like Tony, he does not let you stay comfortable. He pushes, he challenges, he tells you the truth about yourself even when you don't want to hear it. And that's why I love Rabbi Manis Freiedman, who's a Kabad rabbi, a best-selling author, a teacher, and one of the most distinct voices in the world of relationship, spirituality, and what it actually means to live a life filled with purpose. His reach goes way beyond the Jewish world, secular people, people of every faith, people who don't even believe in anything, they all find something in his teachings that wake them up. And today, he's here with us. I'm genuinely honored. Rabbi Manis Freiedman. This man, 79 years old, 14 children. Our conversation spread so far and wide. We talked about sex, marriage, we talked about unconditional love, if it even exists. We talked about psychedelics. We talked about literally everything. This is easily one of the most potent, impactful conversations I've ever had in my life. And you get to hear it right now with the one and only Rabbi Manis Friedman. Rabbi Freriedman, do you have a preference? By the way, Rabbi Manis, Rabbi Freeman, you're good with it all. I was thinking about this and I told you before we started recording about this incident that I had this past weekend where a woman and I randomly started a conversation and she mentioned that she went to Minnesota 40 odd years ago with a retreat with you in Minnesota. I was like what? They're teaching Torah to women in Minnesota in the 1970s. And it made me think about your longevity about the fact that you've been doing this thing for 40, 50 years. And it made me think, hm, who does this guy remind me of? And I made this reference. >> Rip Gran Winkle. >> No, >> let me know what you think. I think I believe that you are the Tony Robbins of rabbis. I'm a little short for that, but how do you feel about that? That reference. I understand it. >> Yeah. >> But he's not a nice guy. >> He's not. >> You've had some interactions. >> No, but everybody who has You don't you don't don't cross him. >> Interesting. >> Anyway, what's the difference? But I I am I I I I appreciate the compliment. >> Yeah. And I'm I'm like I said, I'm very very honored to have the opportunity to connect with you. One of the things that I really resonate with about the way that you communicate and deliver messages is your authenticity and the fact that you're willing to talk about things that are oftentimes considered taboo in Judaism like sex, like masculine feminine energy, right? these things that are such important issues that a lot of people want >> Judaism. >> Exactly. Exactly. And I think I think right now How long have you been married? >> 50 60 a long time. >> My parents have been together 48 years and I'm like as a 35year-old I'm single. I hope someday soon in the near future to find my person, to attract my soulmate, to start a family. I feel like it's kind of challenging, you know, in the era that we're living in, especially in a place like Miami. That might just be a story that I'm telling myself, but in 2026, why is it so much more challenging to have these long-term sustainable relationships between a man and a woman? >> Yeah. Actually, Miami used to be the place where everyone had been married for 50 years at least. >> Yeah. Right. All the retired people would move there. >> Times have changed, Rabbi. >> I think it's because people don't know what they want. The hardest people to get along with are the ones who don't know what they want >> because you never know where they are. I also feel like there's like this idea of shiny object syndrome. Like I could just open up this dating app or open up Instagram and there's just limitless options or at least there's that perception. Yeah, there's a perception. I can marry anybody. Well, no, you can't. First of all, you're not going to meet everybody. You're going to meet a limited number of people. And of those people, most of them don't want to marry you. So, what are you left with? two, what if though you are someone with a lot of options? How from a selfish perspective, like I said, for myself, right, hypothetically, as someone who's had commitment issues in the past, what would be your recommendation for me to just locking in and fully committing to that path of marriage? And by the way, I don't is marriage is marriage necessary? Like do you think we need to get the government involved with this divine union or can I just have a lifelong partner and never actually be married? >> You don't need the government to be married. The government needs you. That's what I'm saying. >> Yeah. So you register with the government that you got married for for their needs, not for yours. So, what would be your biggest piece of advice for me if I want to attract my soulmate into my life? >> Be definite about what your life is so that she knows what she's getting herself into. >> Marriage means will you join me in my life? And I say, well, what is your life? I don't know yet. So, what am I joining you in? Yeah. Do you see I think the divorce percentage in America is roughly 55%. Right? That's over half of marriages ending in divorce. Out of the 45% of people that stay together, a big percentage of of those people aren't necessarily thriving in their relationships. In the Orthodox community where there's these arranged marriages, do you feel like there's a higher success rate of successful marriages with that model? >> When there were arranged marriages, they were very successful. But we don't have arranged can't do that anymore. >> Really? >> You can't. Well, when when people were getting married at 14 and 15, you can arrange it. when they're getting married at 25. You can't arrange it. >> How old were you when you got married? >> 21. >> 21. And how long? Cuz there there's this video of you that went pretty viral. I'm sure you know. And it talks about And now it's very common to date someone for two, three, four, even five years. And then and only then if you feel that connection, you propose, you get engaged. I believe you said that you shouldn't need more than 3 months to know if this person is your person. >> Also, if you've been dating for 5 years, you don't have to decide to get married. You got to decide to get divorced. >> You are married. I mean, if living together for five years doesn't make you attached or connected, you're you're brain dead. How how do you live with somebody for 5 years and not get attached? And why if you separate is that not heartbreaking uh divorce trauma? It is. >> So, so where's the disconnect then? Where's the disconnect? If people are dating for years and then they break up after this time, are they not having the thoughtful deep conversations early enough in the relationship? Where are people missing that? They're having they're having a lot of deep conversations, but without commitment. I mean, if you're living together for five years, you might as well be married, >> right? >> No, no, no, no, no, no. We're not married. Why? Cuz I'm not making that commitment. After 5 years, decide to make a commitment. But it feels strange because that's not what you've had for 5 years. Do you think monogamy is what human beings were designed to experience? >> Monogamy is kind of a byproduct of intimacy. >> Okay? >> Intimacy demands monogamy because without monogamy it's not really intimate. If it's not all about you, man, it's not intimate. >> If it's only partly about you or almost all about you, that the key of marriage is the one line that describes it all. It's not good to be alone. Solution: marriage. But if you can be married and still feel alone, then you haven't really experienced intimacy. How do you define intimacy then? Because I think most people if you ask them in the street, hey, what's intimacy? A majority of them would say sex, physical touch. But my intuition is telling me that there's something deeper to this intimacy thing. >> Well, I think in back in the 60s, we all decided that sex should not be intimate. >> Was that with the advent of birth control? >> It was with the advent of free love. >> Free love meaning don't make it so intimate. It's fun. It's healthy. Everybody's doing it. Lighten up. >> We remove the sacredness from it. recreational >> sex became recreational. >> Yeah. >> Instead of spiritual >> instead of sacred. Yeah. >> So what is someone's listening, they're watching this, they're in a relationship right now, but maybe they're lacking that intimacy and that deep connection. How can you get it back? How can you bring that intentionality and sacredness back to sex and intimacy? There are a few other ingredients we need to bring back also like generosity. >> We're not generous people. >> Actually, we're very generous with things. We're affluent, which means >> physical things. >> Yeah. You can have my shoes. I'll get another pair. >> Right. So we're all all of a sudden we're very generous with our possessions. >> But not with our not with our essence. I see this a lot in Miami, by the way. And I think this is one of the things that has blurred a lot of lines when it comes to dating in the Jewish community and not the Jewish community. I mean, I for example, all right, a week ago, just as friends, went with two amazing Israeli girls who were visiting, took them to Soho Beach House, right? Had a great time. And um just like friendly, feeling out the energy. And then later that night, they meet up with I guess another couple guys, I don't know. And then the next morning I see private jet to the Bahamas. You know, I hear I've heard crazy stories like I have friends that second date a guy has taken them to Bal Harbor shops and spent over $20,000 on them at the Louis Vuitton store. And I'm like, we're living in this world that even spiritual people are getting so consumed by the physical material world that it's blurred the lines. like, "Okay, well, I just spent 20,000 on you." Well, you're obviously doing that with the expectation of receiving something in return, right? So, it's not really giving. You're just >> I don't even know if I have a question for you. I'm just >> Oh, it's a observation about >> Yeah. >> So, generosity would have to be generosity with your with your possessions. >> Okay. >> Generous with your time. Their husbands have no time for their wives. They're not generous with their time. Or they're not generous with their space. Stay out of my space. There are men who are not generous with their words. >> They love their wives. They never say it. Well, why don't you just say it? Well, she knows. So, say it. What for? It's so crazy how easy it is to just express appreciation and gratitude. And for me, I think that's one of the most attractive qualities is when someone actually has a level of gratitude. You know, you go to dinner, they say thank you, like I really appreciate it. Or just complimenting you, you know, like I appreciate your energy. Thank you for being present. Thank you for being so unique. You know, I'm so grateful to spend time with you. Why do we struggle so much to express love, especially as men? So, they say because uh you know, we're we're not good at being intimate. We're not good at being vulnerable. Yeah. But most men are just stingy. M >> they're stingy with their with their compliments and with their so if you're going to be married you have to be generous >> not just with money. Second thing is you have to be respectful. >> You can't be casual with your own wife. >> What would an example of being casual with your wife look like? You you you let yourself be sloppy. >> You would never do that with anybody else present, >> right? >> But with just your wife, just my wife, you know, she she can see all the ugly side of you and it won't affect her. >> Yeah. >> Don't Don't kid yourself. Have you seen like this meme where it's basically like the breakup glow up where it's like the guy gets broken up with and then he all of a sudden starts like going hard in the gym. He builds a business. He starts waking up at 5:00 a.m. It's like why weren't you doing any of those things before? Maybe maybe the breakup wouldn't have happened if you were actually taking action in your life. But sometimes I guess we have to hit rock bottom or something tragic has to happen for us to actually level up. >> So without respect, marriage won't only fail, it'll become really, really nasty. >> I had a famous expression, familiarity breeds contempt. Contempt. That's an ugly word. And there isn't any uglier contempt than between a couple who don't get along. >> Is that when you lose the polarity? Like there's been such blurred lines between the masculine and feminine energy. There's a lack of trust. There's a lack of passion where it's like there's none of the masculine feminine polarity that is required in a healthy relationship. >> Well, if you're living together, >> yeah, you don't want a roommate. >> You're playing with fire. If you lose respect and you live together, it's not going to be pretty. >> The only way to protect yourself from that is to maintain a healthy respect for each other. Like a couple are sitting at home having breakfast and the doorbell rings and the wife says, "Hang on, I got to get decent. Not for your husband. With him, you don't have to be decent. How do we get there so backwards? You have more respect for the pizza delivery guy. For him, you get dressed for your husband. No. No. We're married. What does that mean? What does that mean? So, it's seems like often times people get too stuck in their comfort zone once they feel like they've accomplished the goal of being with this person. It's like, "All right, I'm good. I don't need to try to become a better version of myself anymore. >> You're going to love me no matter what." Now, >> that's unconditional love, right? >> There's no such thing. >> There's no such thing, right, Rabbi? I'm so glad you said this. This is what I've been wrestling with because, you know, you hear this term thrown around all the time, unconditional love. It sounds absolutely amazing. I would love to know what that's like. I think my parents actually at this stage of life unconditionally loved me. I think my mom always has. I think naturally there's always conditions to love. Hey, if you get good grades in school, then I'm going to love you fully. If you score 20 points in the basketball game, then I'm going to show you that you're fully worthy of my love. But the unconditional love, that's just with God, right? Not even with God. Really? That's why we get married. >> Okay. >> Marriage is unconditional. >> Emotions can't be unconditional. H >> what do you mean you love me no matter what? I'm not lovable. Yeah. Well, I love you. It's not me. If you like the guy say if you can love me in my condition, you don't know what love means. How could you? You tell a kid who's misbehaving, "Oh, I love you very much." And the kid says, "You're crazy. >> What are you loving? I'm an obnoxious kid. Do I love you anyway? Well, you obviously don't love me. I mean, imagine a non-Jewish guy says to me, you know, I don't like Jews. I I'm not comfortable with Jews. With you, I'm comfortable. I don't even think of you as a Jew. Well, then you don't think of me. Period. >> Yeah. >> Cuz I'm a Jew. So what does it mean? If you're lovable, people love you. If you're not lovable, people are going to avoid you. But why is the love between ourselves and the creator, Hashem? I would think that would be unconditional love. Doesn't God love us unconditionally through the mistakes, through the failures, through the challenges, through the obstacles? Isn't God always showing us love >> through the hate? What does it mean? I will love you even when I hate you. It It's It's double talk. >> But does God hate? >> Yeah. >> Really? Who does God hate? >> Us. >> Now, is that Are you referring to more so like our ego that is there? It's designed to really challenge and test us. >> Well, of course, he hates the nasty side of us. >> But he also created that side of us. >> True. But there are a lot of things he created that he hates. >> Such as what? >> Pork. Okay. So, >> abomination. >> So, so why did God create pork if he didn't want us to eat it? >> For some other reason. >> You can use it for making footballs. Was it was it to serve as a test though? Because I I at one point in my life I did eat bacon and rabbi, I got to tell you, it's absolutely delicious. >> It wasn't >> bacon cheeseburger. Don't judge me. So, so did did God create pork so we can enjoy things like that or was it a test? Hey, can you can you remove your desire for this instant gratification that the pork's going to give you and stay strong and aligned with your highest self? Not not just as a test. There is really something unholy about pork. So God really does not approve and he wants us to be on the same page with him. Aren't pigs the filthiest animal? I'm pretty sure they don't have sweat glands, so they can't actually detoxify any of the waste. So, they're extremely filthy and they carry on to a lot of parasites and they cause a lot of inflammation when humans consume them. That's why I think we don't eat pork. >> But that's the by the physical representation of something spiritually wrong with them. And what what what would be your explanation for why we don't eat pork? >> Because God never intended for us to eat pork. He didn't create pork for our consumption. >> Okay. Interesting. I'm sure there's things that maybe >> it's not not just a test. >> Wait, this actually I'm so glad you mentioned this, Rabbi. Wow. I'm loving this. I'm so happy you're here. Um, I'm glad you mentioned this that if something is here and it's something that we consume, most likely that was God's intention for the most part. I want to ask you your thoughts on psychedelics because a lot of coalists and rabbis believe that the burning bush that Moses was inhaling the smoke from was actually an acacia tree. And I'm sure you've heard the story, maybe not, but he was inhaling the smoke from the acacia tree. It gave him this psychedelic experience. And shortly thereafter, he parted the Red Sea >> or thought he did. Either way, sometimes perception is reality, right? So, what are your thoughts as a rabbi about psychedelics in Judaism? Were psychedelics put here by God for us to consume to expand our consciousness? >> Medically, definitely. M >> but as a lifestyle absolutely not >> because all of Torah is truth >> no artificial highs >> no artificially induced anything to Torah is the truth not the escape from reality so what you're saying if I'm not mistaken is that you believe these different psychedelics and plant Medicines such as mushrooms serve a very legitimate purpose when used with intention very occasionally as a healing, not as a lifestyle. >> Of course. And >> so as soon as a thing becomes so popular where everybody has to do this. Everyone. >> Exactly. >> All right. You're starting a new religion. >> And and I I agree with you 100%. By the way, I first had my my first psychedelic experience. I told you, you know, my Jewish awakening didn't start till 2 and 1/2 years ago. And in 2018, I went to Peru and I sat with a plant medicine called Iawaska. And I had a very powerful experience where I felt deeply connected to God and I purely felt like I was a vessel. Like I I understood what that whole idea felt like in my body. that experience and that kind of got me on my spiritual journey and you know I've I've experienced mushrooms. I've facilitated ceremonies but always under the premise of operating with intention. We're not going to mushrooms to go to the club. We're not doing mushrooms to you know just have a good time. It's like what's the intention that deep rooted kavana and um for me it's it's played an instrumental role in in connecting to the creator and now I have the other tools where I'm not dependent on anything external necessarily which I think is what you're referring to as well. >> So you can look at it one of two ways. You you go under the influence of a of a psychedelic. What happens? you start to imagine things then go away. If it allows you to be you >> and the real you is real like your connection with God is absolutely real. It didn't come from the psychedelic. >> Somehow the psychedelic allowed you to see who you really are. That's useful. But if it's creating an awareness of something big and >> yeah, >> we've been there before many times and it's always a disaster. >> No, I love I love how you explain that because I always say that the medicine always just reveals what's inside of you already. And a lot of times we've been so obstructed by the childhood trauma, by all of the being in our head all the time, by the challenges, the obstacles that we forget our true essence. And these plant medicines can really help uncover us back to our most authentic self like you mentioned. >> So then it's not an artificial high. >> Artificial anything is not acceptable. >> What are your thoughts on things like alcohol because >> same thing, >> okay? >> If it allows you to be you and the good part of you comes out, fine. If it just makes you crazy, of course not. >> But that's also a slippery slope. >> Yes. because then someone can be like, you know, um just a couple drinks to loosen up and I can be my most. But if that's like the recurring theme and the narrative like, hey, every night that I am interacting with any other human beings, I need to have a couple drinks of alcohol, that's when we're building a crutch and dependence, right? Because at the end of the day, alcohol is a neurotoxin and it causes inflammation on a neurological level. But what I've learned through Judaism, by the way, is when we bring that intention to the kdouch and we drink wine and we're celebrating life together, drinking alcohol can actually be a very high vibration thing, but we have to be intentional with how we approach it. >> And the vibration is not the wine. >> The vibration's internal, right? The vibration is the event, >> the wedding, the Shabas. And we're coming from Passover. The story of coming out of Egypt. A crazy story. >> Crazy. >> It's a crazy story. >> Yeah. >> God wants to take Jews out of slavery. So, he negotiates with Pharaoh. How about now? You let him go now? How about now? How about another plague? How about another plague? Just take them out. M >> you're God. Pharaoh was not an idiot. One of the ways of understanding that whole story is Moshe comes to Pharaoh and says, "We got to go out into the desert and do some spiritual stuff." >> Pharaoh said, "No way. Way too dangerous. What are you going to become? Nomads? stay in society and help build a future. Hard work. Okay. But God in the desert looking for God, you're going to keep you're going to drink Kool-Aid. >> So, what did Mosha and are are you suggesting Moshe and Pharaoh did some sort of mushroom journey together? >> No. >> Oh. What did they >> On the contrary, Pharaoh was saying, "Are you high on something?" >> Okay. He was saying that to God or Mosh. He was saying that to Moshe. Okay. You want to take the people out into the desert to to look for God. Every time people tried that, it would been a disaster. You're going to you're going to die. So, I can't let you go. Not I'm stubborn. I'm responsible. >> After a couple of plagues, Pharaoh says, "Fine, take a minion. Take 10 guys and go." Moshe says, "Nope. our women, our children. Oh, you're really cracked. No, you're not going. >> Finally, it dawned on Pharaoh. We're not going into the desert to look for a high. God is waiting for us. >> We're not looking for anything. We have an appointment with God. Pharaoh said, "Why didn't you say so? You can't keep God waiting. Go now. People keep making that mistake. Judaism is not a religion. People who put on fillain are not being religious. Religion is too contrived. You put on fill because you're a Jew and you're really a Jew and fillain is really Jewish. So what's what's the religion part? You keep kosher because you're Jewish. There's nothing artificial about it. That's a relationship. >> So what is unconditional about a marriage or about parents and children? >> A mother shouldn't say I love you unconditionally. A mother should say, "I am your mother unconditionally. >> I'm your mother when I love you. I'm your mother when I hate you. I'm your mother when you're good. I'm your mother when you're bad. I'll go through suffering with you. But do I love you when you're bad? Why should I?" >> Wouldn't it be like I love you, but I just don't like you right now? >> Right. kind of >> you could say that. But you know what does it mean? Uh emotion means my reaction to you. If my reaction to you is the same no matter what you do, then I'm not reacting to you. I have decided how I'm going to behave no matter what you do. So you don't count anymore. >> All right. If you are enjoying today's podcast episode, it would mean the absolute world if you took a few moments to leave a review for the show. Whether you're listening on Apple, Spotify, or watching it on YouTube, it genuinely helps so much by leaving us a review. It helps me become a better version of myself, and it helps us reach more people and impact more lives. Because the truth is, I don't have any paid sponsors for this podcast. It's a labor of love. So, your positive reviews actually help in such a tremendous way in paying it forward for other people to find the show. And if you're not yet subscribed, please hit that subscribe button. It makes a big difference. And thank you. Thank you for being here. It genuinely means the world. Now, let's get back to the show. If my reaction to you is the same no matter what you do, then I'm not reacting to you. I have decided how I'm going to behave no matter what you do. So, you don't count anymore. I'm curious to know going back to this Egypt story, right? Obviously, the Jewish people escaped Egypt, created freedom, liberation, and also Passover is all about escaping our own internal Egypt. And I'm wondering for you if you're open to sharing what is an inner Egypt that you have escaped in your life. I was very antisocial >> as a teenager. I couldn't imagine speaking to a stranger, speaking to a crowd. I avoided crowds. I avoided people. Even in class, I'd never raised my hand. >> I was invisible. So even with God, God says, "You are my children. I am your creator. You will never end this relationship because I will never give up on you." Do I love you? Not right now. How were you able to break through that barrier? Because I I actually struggled with the same thing. I I was terrified to speak. I wasn't antisocial, but I was just very insecure and um speaking in front of people was something that terrified me. So obviously now it's what you do for a living. It's what you've done for the last what four or five decades. So, how were you able to go from this shy uh antisocial boy to who you are today? >> So, I was in the yeshiva in Montreal, Kabad Yeshiva, and one day the deba said to the yeshiva, "Make sure that every student goes to a different shoo on Shabas afternoon and delivers a Torah thought." M I heard about it and I thought yeah well fine there are those who are going to do that but I was told that there were no exceptions. I said I'm I can't do that. They said yeah you're going to do that and I had no choice. >> So you just started you just leaned into the discomfort basically you are forced to what how old were you 18? Yeshiva age 16 >> 16 17 >> I was I was it it was very very difficult the first two times then I saw the reaction said whoa this is amazing people light up people are like can't not do this >> so it went from can't do to can't not Isn't that interesting how like you do something and then you see the impact it can create and then it's almost like it it kind of connects you to your purpose. I'm sure that journey also helped. I know you talk a lot about the importance especially for men to be connected to their purpose, right? And I think it's another area where a lot of men are struggling to discover themselves. What did that feel like? Like if someone's if someone's wondering like, "Hey, am I on the right path? Am I am I am I pursuing my purpose?" Is there a feeling that they should experience? No. >> Cuz then it's probably not their purpose. >> Okay. So So how does someone know >> if they're pursuing their purpose? >> So here here's here's the really scary thing. What does it mean to have a purpose? you make one up today. I think my purpose is going to be h no that was not I'll think I'll come up with a better you know you can't do that purpose means before you were born there was a purpose for your coming into the world not your purpose the purpose for you so when you say what is the purpose of life you basically believe in God because if there is no creator with a purpose then there is no purpose in life. >> So are you saying sorry were you going to continue? >> You can't make up a purpose after the fact. >> You can't build a car and then think oh what's the purpose of this? >> So you're you you believe that our purpose is predestined. >> That's what it means. So, would you say that you have to understand your birth chart and the way that the stars and planets were aligned when you were born, which I'm a huge fan of, by the way, understanding all of those things astrologically, I think, is a valuable start. At the end of the day, I do believe action is required for one to fully have the awareness of what their purpose is. What you see in the stars will tell you who you are, not why you are. >> It'll tell you if you're strong and weak, what you're But why? The stars can't tell you that. Only God can tell you that. What about understanding the significance of your name? Like Yeryahu for example. I never understood how powerful my name is on a letterby-letter basis, right? You know, I went to a Jewish school. This was never embedded in the lessons. And I know you know this stuff, but like I'm I'm I'm just I want to give people, you know, actionable steps for me. Like I feel like you need to fail a lot. You need to try a lot of things and see what gets you feeling fully present. For example, I've done this podcast for like six or seven years, but I've been interrupted because it's a lot of production. It's a lot of energy, and I've gotten distracted by other projects and other things. And recently, I was like, you know what? The podcast is so important to me because it just provides me the opportunity to connect with people that I really admire and respect. We're fully present. How often do we get to be connecting with another human being for at least an hour? We're not on our phones. We're just fully connecting in the flow state, divinely guided by Hashem. So, for me, that's how I know the podcast is like at least a part of my purpose, you know, not fully by any means, but are there any other things? Like, does that resonate what I said? Am I am I wrong? the the overarching consideration is, is this what God needs from me? >> I mean, Tucker Carlson also has podcasts. Is that his purpose in life? No. So, if you're doing one of the many things God needs, that could be your purpose. But if you're doing something God doesn't need, no matter how much you enjoy it, no matter how fulfilling it is, it's not the purpose. >> Okay, that makes more sense. So I guess on the o overarching it would be like delivering more truth to the world filled with lies. I feel like >> it gets people closer to God. If Jews get a little closer to Judaism, yeah, then it could be that this is your way of fulfilling the purpose. You said earlier that Judaism is not a religion, >> right? >> So what is Judaism? >> Judaism is monogamy and intimacy with God. >> Aren't there other faiths and religions that believe that as well? >> So what makes the Jewish people special? It's our monogamy. Like a lot of people are married, but not to my wife. >> Okay? Like, >> yeah, you should all have monogamous relationships with God. >> Okay? >> But our relationship is an old, strong, tested, proven on both sides. God has never abandoned us and we have never abandoned God. >> So wouldn't you say there's unconditional love between the Jewish people and God? >> Unconditional connection. >> In that connection, there's love. >> Okay. >> There's compassion. >> Yeah. >> And there's hate. >> I sometimes I hate you. >> We just met, Rabbi. Don't take it personally. >> I don't take it personally. I don't take it personally. So, um, okay. I'm learning I'm learning more. I'm learning your your perspectives are very unique as I'm sure you've been told. Look, >> if you say unconditional, doesn't that mean I can hate you and it's and we still stay together? >> Yeah. >> To say unconditional love, all that we can have between us is love. That is the biggest condition of all. So if we don't love, it's all over. >> What? Unconditional love. >> So, so I'm curious to know because obviously most marriages don't end successfully. Most marriages would be perceived as failures, either ending in divorce or just ending in disconnection. Right. >> Most marriages don't start successfully. >> Tell tell me about that. You know, couples come for marriage counseling and they they massacre each other and and uh and then they say, "So, you think we should get divorced?" I said, "How can you get divorced? You're not even married. You never really got married." I saw a crazy statistic that was basically almost 90. They did a survey of a certain number of people that had been divorced and they asked them like at what point in the marriage did you think that this was going to happen that the marriage was going to end in divorce and I think it was like 87% said that they knew they were going to get divorced before they even got married. And I was like how is that even possible? So, you're literally signing up for something that you know deep inside your soul is going to end >> in failure. Like, wh why would someone do that? >> I don't know. It's crazy. This couple came to me and said, "We're very much in love and we would like to get married. Would you do the wedding for us?" I said, "You're in love?" They said, "Yeah." I said, "Well, then too late. What are you getting married for? >> You're getting married for the love. You already have the love. What are you getting married for? And they were a little stunned and they said, "Well, well, we you know, we want to make a commitment." Said, "Commit to what? What's your commitment? That you're going to stay together if you don't love each other?" No, you won't. Commitment to always love each other. You can't commit to that. There's no way you can promise that. What are you doing? If you're getting married for love, don't bother. So why should you get married then? For oneness. Oneness. Akava. The word love, right? I think numerically in gamatria adds up to 13 and also adds up to 13. So love equals oneness. And oneness is the antidote to aloneeness. >> Aloneess. >> Finish a sentence. They're sharing a drink they call loneliness, but it's better >> together. Billy Joel. They're sharing a drink they call loneliness, but it's better than drinking alone. M loneliness you can share. Two lonely people get together it's beautiful but alone you can't share that. So let's say hypothetically right I'm don't feel alone. I'm single but like I have great friendships. I have other meaningful relationships. I'm connected to my purpose. If the main mission or the main goal objective of getting married is to feel less alone, I just feel like that is not the reason I should get married. Like it almost feels like I'm too dependent on this person to make me feel a certain way, which feels like a very weak foundation >> for a marriage. >> I got to tell you this u >> am I wrong? >> Psychology. Psychology came up with a brilliant insight. >> Okay. >> Vulnerability is not a weakness. >> Is that true? >> You wrote the book, Divinely Vulnerable, Rabbi, so I feel like you're the one who should answer that question. >> What I'm what I'm saying in the book is God is infinite in everything. Infinitely smart, infinitely strong, infinitely old. He's also infinitely vulnerable. M >> we're only a little vulnerable. He's infinitely vulnerable. And yet it it's not a weakness. >> Can it be a weakness? >> It's a greatness. >> Well, if vulnerable means capable of being hurt, then yes, a weakness. But if vulnerable means I don't see a purpose in my life without you, That is not a weakness. That's a bigness bigger than me. So, I mean, if you really want to get into the the ultimate truth, God created the world because it's not good to be alone. And he was completely alone. So he created the world to not be alone. Why? What's wrong with being God and being alone? Seems ideal. No, >> boring a little bit. >> So God said it's not good. What's good about it? It's impressive. It's not good. It's like being perfect. M >> the worst thing that can happen to someone is to become perfect. >> It's just an illusion. It's not possible. >> Even if it was possible, it would be a disaster because being perfect and being dead is exactly the same thing. So what do you say? God is perfect. That's it. Finished. That's it. And God says, "Please don't don't say that about me. I'm alive. I got thoughts. I got a plan. I got a purpose. Don't Don't make Don't pass me off as perfect. That's good for idols, not for me. Yeah, I guess that that's what makes us human. All 8 billion of us have these unique imperfections that actually in some way are a reflection of God. If we believe that we're created in God's image, >> which makes us more than human, >> that part in us that can't stand being alone, it's divine. It's not a weakness. It's it just doesn't compute that I am here just for me. But it doesn't make sense. It's a dead end. I'm me. I'm always going to be me. And that's all there is to me. then what's the point? >> Isn't that kind of the concept? I was just talking with Eton, you know, one of the most respected Cabala teachers in the world. And there's basically two forms of receiving, right? There's receiving for your own self-interest, and then there's receiving in order to share more light and to bring more positive energy to the world. Kind of what you're touching on now. Life will seem very meaningless if you're just constantly receiving with the intention of not sharing. The whole purpose of receiving, whether it's physically or spiritually, is so we can share those lessons and those blessings with the people around us. The punchline behind it is my life doesn't justify itself. If I'm not in a relationship beyond myself, myself is not justified. >> It's the opposite of pop psychology. >> What's pop psychology? I'm not familiar. >> Everything is you. >> Everything is you. >> Love yourself. Validate yourself. Put yourself first. Do what you feel is right. Follow your bliss. It's so not true of the human nature. >> I don't want to be me. Not that I got anything against me, but I was born me just to be me and I'm going to die being me. I don't see the purpose. >> It's about becoming we. Is that what you're saying? >> Cuz you love being you, right? >> Yourself, >> beyond yourself. >> How many kids do you have, Rabbi? >> 14. >> You have 14 children. >> Seriously, >> so far >> with the same woman? Yes. >> How many of those 14 are twins? >> None. >> None. >> We didn't cheat. >> Rabbi, you are an absolute legend. >> Me? >> I mean, you were a legend before I knew that, but now I'm just like, >> if I'm a legend, what's my wife? >> I mean, she's on a different level. >> That's right. >> Rabbi, I mean, I feel like you're the perfect person to ask about parenting and fatherhood. I mean, you've had a lot of opportunities to make mistakes and then learn from those mistakes. Is there one universal truth that you've learned about being a father that your kids can look to and they feel the love, they feel the trust, they feel the respect. I don't think you have to do anything for that. Just be yourself. But if you want good kids, show them a life that they can't wait to become part of. Don't tell them, don't preach to them, don't threaten them, don't demand. Show them a life that they can't resist. Make them an offer they can't resist. And that really happens by just embodying the best version of yourself. Whether it's like they see you working out and being healthy or building a business or just being happy like they're a sponge. So they're observing and absorbing everything that they see you doing as their parent. So I guess like the embodiment rather than preaching or talking and saying, "Hey, do this, do that." It's like, "No, let me just lead by example." But an example of a life, not of a an activity. Going going to the gym is not a life. It's part of a life though, just a healthy lifestyle. Now, >> it's just being healthy so that you can live life. But what is your life? >> Life is hopefully a a compilation of great experiences, great people, feeling like you're making a positive contribution to the planet. If they think you're making a positive contribution to the planet, they will find it irresistible. >> So problem with our generation is kids are looking for something they can do have a positive effect and their parents are not. >> So the kids are experimenting. They want to find a way to make the world better. Since the 60s, the kids are ahead of their parents. Rabbi, I got to say I'm very disappointed that I have to uh that this we we only have the a lot of time because I feel like I could go on for like seven or eight hours with you and I hope we can do a part two very soon. Um, wow. This whole 14 kids thing just opened up like a whole new portal for me and I would I would love to explore this explore this with you. I also wrote down like a bunch of rapid fire questions that I wanted to make sure I touched on some of them. Um, is it true that the Jews run the world? >> Yeah, >> it is. >> Can you explain? Ask the anti-Semite. They'll tell you. We were chosen to take responsibility for the welfare of the world. >> Have we done a good job? Uh, under the circumstances, whenever they weren't shooting at us, we were teaching and sharing and having a very positive effect. And if they would stop shooting, we could do even more. What is the best thing a parent can say to their child? >> I can tell you the worst thing. >> Let's hear it. >> Can you just sit quietly and be a good boy? >> That is so bad. Sit quietly and don't make trouble. That's a good dog. A human being by definition is never content being human. You know, my dad when I was younger and I used to get in trouble all the time in school would make me be in my room and just write hundreds of sentences. I will not talk in class. I will not talk in class. And it actually subconsciously programmed me to speak less and not fully communicate >> effectively. It's interesting how those moments and those experiences from childhood impact us as adults. >> Um >> so the best thing to say to the kid, it's not about you. >> It's not about you. And we do this maybe not consistently and maybe not consciously. But when you say for example, it's bedtime and kiss says I don't want to go to sleep. And you say, "But it's bedtime." What are you saying? You're literally saying, "This is not about you. >> Nobody asked your opinion. It's bedtime. >> There's a reality beyond you." So the word but I know you don't want to go but I know you don't want to do the homework but I know you want to hit your sister but >> it's not about you. >> The more effective and the more successful we are getting the children past themselves the greater the kids are going to be. If you model a life where reality is bigger than yourself, it's not about me. There's a purpose. There are other people who are more deserving, more needy, more whatever. It's not about me. >> Yeah. >> The healthiest thing in the world. Happy kids. No, it's not about them. When you have 14 kids, every one of them knows it's not about me. >> Yeah, that's crazy. >> 13 others. >> Yeah. They learn to just be like selfless. >> Yeah. You got to make room for others. You can't. >> But I imagine it must also create patterns where they're trying to like receive attention and they're sometimes feeling unseen because there's so many other kids. >> They are sometimes unseen and they're okay with it. >> Yeah. I guess that's just reality is like right now maybe just don't receive as much attention. You know, there's other priorities. >> If you give a mixed message, first first five, six years you tell the child it's all about you. It's all about you. It's then all of a sudden, hey, hey, it's not about you. >> Yeah. >> They get confused. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> And they feel cheated. Rabbi, there seems to be a lot of confusion in 2026 about gender roles. Lots of people using weird pronouns to describe themselves. I don't know. But it begs the question, are men and women equal? No way. You know, there's this crazy notion that human beings, all human beings should be able to get along well because after all, we all have the same needs. There anything as ridiculous as that? >> Yeah. >> It's because we have the same needs that we can't get along. We're fighting over the same dollar, over the same space, over the same water. If we all needed something different, there'd be peace in the world. You do your thing, I'll do mine. But no, we need the same thing. By saying men and women need the same thing, you've killed every marriage. The reason marriage can work is because it's a man and a woman and they don't need the same thing. M what's the number one thing that a woman needs in her marriage to feel successful? >> Appreciation. >> Don't take them for granted. They will do everything and anything necessary without asking for a reward, but you take them for granted. Uh-uh. And what's the number one thing that men are craving from their >> admiration? >> What's that? Admiration. Respect. Admiration. >> Men are so desperate that a woman says to her husband, "Wow, you changed the light bulb." He feels great. >> Those those those words of affirmation. It's like I had the opportunity to to save the situation, create a solution, be in my masculine energy. I think that's really what it is on a grander scale. It's like, yes, you changed the light bulb, but it's also like, you know, I'm the man. I took action. I brought light to this house. You know, I unscrewed it. I screwed it back in. Like, yes, you can count on me for getting these types of things done. So I guess it on a greater scale it's like the masculine feminine energy is restored and there's better trust now because it's like okay now she can relax in her feminine and know that those types of things will be taken care of which allows her to be a nurturer. >> Men can't nurture because they're busy doing. >> You can't nurture and do. To nurture, you have to be passive, leaving all the room for the nurturing to to happen. >> There's not many stay-at-home dads, I guess, >> for that reason. >> Yeah. The uterus is a very passive organ >> and yet it's the one that creates a baby. It allows the baby to thrive because it doesn't have its own agenda. It's beautiful. I don't know if you saw this, Rabbi, but it's pretty disturbing. There's an emoji on the iPhone that's a pregnant man. You know, in some states they actually banned the term pregnant woman and they force people to say pregnant person. Seriously, this is the world that we're living in. This is again why I'm a little concerned about New York and I'm curious to know your opinion on this. I mean, you got Mam Dani, you got a you got a socialist Islamist as the mayor of your city. And it's concerning. It's concerning because these are not Western values. These are values that do not value healthy family dynamics. They value death and destruction. You know, I'm grateful I live in Florida. There's very clear identities, men, women, and uh it's interesting, you know, that there's this agenda. I think it is a very evil agenda that is designed to destroy the nuclear family. You see this in California, there's 8-year-old, 9year-olds having sex changes and their parents aren't even notified about it. It's like they're confused mentally. So, I think changing genders is going to solve the problem. And then we see those same people, these transgender people are committing a majority of these school shootings in the last two years because it's a mental health disease, but we're treating it the wrong way. >> Sorry, I just went on a very random tangent, Rabbi. >> I'm not even sure it's a disease. >> It's an insanity. When you don't know where you're going, you don't know why you exist, you don't know why you were born, you're gonna go crazy. Maybe I try this, maybe I try that. I tried heterosexual, try homosexual, maybe I'm just the wrong sex. I mean, when you don't know truth and life becomes a big experiment, it's dangerous. Rabbi, quick question on >> You have a question for me? >> Yeah, for everybody. >> Okay. >> Um, nature is so beautiful. Nature is so good. If only human beings would disappear cuz human beings are evil. True description. This is the secular way of looking at the world. >> The godly way of looking at the world is nature is deceptively beautiful but deeply evil. The only good part is the human being who can bring a little decency >> into an indecent nature >> because in nature everything dies. Everything dies. There's just one direction. Annihilation. It'll rust. It'll it'll burn out. It'll it'll die. The human being comes in and says, "But wait, there's some purpose that doesn't die. There is virtue that lives on forever. Can we reverse the trend in nature and make nature good again?" Rabbi, you're 79 years old. >> Thank you for reminding me. >> You're 79 years old and you've done a lot of cool things. You've impacted a lot of people. You've spread a lot of light. I'm curious to know, just genuinely asking you, I don't think I've ever asked anyone this like how do you feel about that next transition? like is there fear about death? Are you at peace? I'm just kind of curious your mindset at 79 years old. You would think that at 79 death would become a real concern. Not not any more than when I was 30. >> You're just getting started, Rabbi. I feel it. >> Death. I had no intentions of dying. >> We'll get you some peptides. Get you feeling young again, baby. >> But I got to tell you, when I first came to Minnesota and started teaching, >> Yeah. >> I invited people to come to our class at the university. Six women showed up. I thought, I am so successful. Six. Now I'm talking to 8 million people every day. Drop in the bucket. There are 8 billion. Insane. So 8 million. That's embarrassing. 8 million. Is that your so like social media? Really? Where are you biggest on YouTube? Really? How many? I have no idea. >> That's cool. That That's That's awesome. That So, is that the son that I met? He's the one that um does a lot of your uh he helps you a lot with the business stuff. >> It's amazing. >> There's another son. >> Yeah. >> Rabbi, I guess, you know, I I I I think I already went over time and I know we have to wrap this up, but I mentioned this before we started recording and I want to get your genuine honest opinion. All right. You can be brutally honest with me. All right. As you can see, I have some tattoos on my body. All right. I've been told by some people that I can't be buried in a Jewish cemetery now. Is that true? No. My man, give me some, baby. Let's go. Can you explain why they would say that to me? And can you explain maybe your perspective? I'm not really sure, but I think tattoos used to be a religious idolatrous practice. >> Well, you know, if you're going to take a idol with you, nobody wants you in their cemetery like there goes the neighborhood. You know what I mean? >> Yeah. >> But it's not idolatrous. decidedly not idolatrous and it's not done as part of a religion. So it's a completely different thing. Are you allowed to disfigure your body? No, you're not allowed. Not any bigger sin than anything else. Wouldn't disfiguring your body also include like breast implants, lip injections, hair transplants, like all aren't all of these things actually a form of what you suggested >> when they go bad? But I don't imagine when the Torah was written, people were getting boob jobs. >> Who knows? >> Who knows? >> They were very sophisticated. >> Really interesting. Maybe we'll dive deeper into that for round two. Rabbi, I'm really a little I'm mixed feelings right now. I'm extremely grateful that I got to uh have this opportunity with you and connect. I hope you enjoyed it. That was pretty good. But I didn't cough the whole time. >> Why do you have a coughing problem? >> Yeah. >> Really? Do you smoke? >> No. >> Never smoked >> a little bit. Cigar. Shabbat. Pre-Shabbat cigar. >> No. Never. >> Never. >> Really? What? >> My father didn't. I didn't. >> What was a vice that you've had? Have you ever had like a vice? You know, you're feeling a little naughty. Like what does the rabbi do? >> You mean besides chocolate? >> Dark chocolate. Cuz that's >> dark chocolate. What's your favorite chocolate? >> Any chocolate? >> Really? Do you have like caramel, almond, dark chocolate? >> Yeah, you can enhance it a little bit, but it's the chocolate. >> The chocolate. I got you. >> So, I know what to get you next time, Rabbi. Okay, so that's your biggest vice. Chocolate. >> It's my favorite. >> Oh, okay. So, there's another one. What's the other one? >> Oh, there lots. >> Well, we can save them. A lot of vices. I think it's I think it's nice for a rabbi, you know, to share vulnerab vulnerabilities because, you know, people think, "Oh, it's a rabbi. He does everything exactly perfect." But even yourself, you said that perfection is just a myth. It's an illusion. >> The goodness of it is an illusion. >> I think people can be perfect. >> There's just >> And then what? >> Yeah. There no one's going to relate to that. It's not a goal. >> Rabbi, um, do you have any final words for the people listening and watching, you know, you're obviously a man with so much wisdom. I'm very grateful that you came here today. It genuinely means the world. I was looking forward to this conversation for a long time and I really hope that we get to build a friendship uh, from here on out. Are there any final words that you have for the people >> to religious people? Well, the question is a very simple one. You've been using God for your benefit for 5,000 years. Can you stop? Stop using him and start serving him. It's his world, not yours. And for people who are not religious or don't particularly believe in God, what are you doing to make the world better? If you agree the world is not as good as it can be, understatement, then what are you doing to make it better? >> If we would all wake up in the morning thinking, what can I do to make the world a better world? It would be a much better world. >> Yeah. if we had that intention right when we woke up like let me just do one thing to enhance the quality of life around me. >> So anyone who goes to work the most boring tedious job imaginable if you're producing something you're serving God because you're making his world better. >> I feel like we did that today. How do you feel? >> Absolutely. Absolutely. >> But we should be doing it all day long. >> All day. Every day. I'll be back in the studio tomorrow if you want to come by. >> Round two. Rabbi, I'm serious. Do you have any plans to visit me in Miami? >> Where in Miami are you? >> Bal Harbor Surfside. >> Right in the thick of things. Yeah. >> All roads lead to Miami, so sooner or later we'll be there. >> Well, I can't wait for that. It's going to be nice. Maybe we can go to like a pool party. >> But you travel a lot. >> Um I'm I'm I've pretty much been rooted there. I spend I'm going to be in Israel this summer. I was just there I was there for 4 months this past summer. So ideally I want to kind of have half Miami, half Israel. I feel there's a different connection obviously in Israel and I >> that's like Jerusalem East and Jerusalem West. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, um I also we didn't really get a chance to dive deep into this book, but right here, Divinely Vulnerable. We talked a little bit about the importance of vulnerability. We're going to link to this book and your other book in the show notes. Guys, if you like this conversation with Rabbi Manis Freiedman and myself, do yourself a favor and grab this book. I mean, it's pretty short. It's like 120 pages, and I'm sure there's massive amounts of knowledge and wisdom in here. I can't wait to read it on my flight back. And um, Rabbi, again, thank you so much. You know, I know you're serving a lot of people on a daily basis. So, the fact that you're able to stop by here for a couple hours is uh really meaningful for me. And I know for everyone who watched and listened, their life got enhanced significantly. So, thank you. >> That's the name of the game. >> Baroo Hashem. >> Yeah. Thank you for the opportunity. >> Rabbi Manis Freiedman. Everyone, make sure to follow, subscribe, and the rabbi challenged me to uh potentially grow out my beard like his. So, who knows? Maybe round two. I'll be looking a little different. I was Rabbi, I don't know. I think maybe I need the pot going. I think that's maybe what I need to attract my wife. The pay. I'm telling you, Rabbi, there's something about the pay. The energy. Um, did we get some good pictures, by the way? We did. It's already on Instagram. >> Oh, amazing. Baroo Hashem, Rabbi Manis Freedman, I'm I I I think I acknowledged you enough. You're a living legend and um truly truly it's an honor. >> Thank you, my brother.