---
video_id: ZMk3ztb66mc
title: "The 2,500-Year-Old Trick to Instantly Silence Your Mind: Zen Master, Henry Shukman"
channel: "André Duqum"
duration: 7565
view_count: 159154
upload_date: 20260310
tags: ["know thyself", "podcast", "spirituality", "personal growth", "transformation", "andre duqum", "interviews", "philosophy", "meditation"]
thumbnail: https://i.ytimg.com/vi/ZMk3ztb66mc/maxresdefault.jpg
---

This life is a movie and the purpose of life is to turn around and see the projector. So much of the modern mindfulness movement is focusing on mindfulness as a thing that [music] I do. And it doesn't really point us to the total connectivity of our lives. It's not a path out of the world. It's a path deeply into the world. And I think this is a really important flavor of Zen. Now I want to I'm going to just let me can I tell you a quick story personal when I began the path of [music] meditative training nearly 40 years ago I had no idea you don't need [music] to have practiced in order to have realization or awakening it's so easy for us to think it's down the road but it can't be there is only now but also I think it's really true freedom is just another word for nothing left to lose in other words the pain of heartbreak can open [music] the heart. And when the heart is open, we're really alive. Hey everyone, welcome back to the Know Thyself podcast. Our guest today is an authorized teacher in the Zen lineage. He is a poet, a novelist, creator of the Way app, and an incredible voice in the space of Zen. Henry Shookman, thank you for being here. >> It's great to be with you, Andre. Your voice has an incredible sound, especially for guided meditations. [laughter] Um, I am looking forward to having this episode be a solid introduction into the world of Zen, which I think has become quite commercialized. That term, however catchy it is, um, has been put on many different packages [laughter] as a as a branding for well-being. And I would love to dive deep with you today. So to start very simply, what is Zen? >> Yeah. Um that's a great question that Zen itself has been trying to answer for thousands of years [snorts] because the heart of it is unnameable. Um but at the same time, it's this very moment exactly as it is right now. So Zen um in a slightly less um obscure way of putting it, it's a it's one of the forms of one of the many forms of Buddhism. It's a form of Buddhism that has got Dowoism in it as well. And what that means in practical terms is that among the various kinds of Buddhism that there are Tibetan you know terraada vipassa and so on many many forms of Buddhism actually Zen I think it's fair to say is the simplest simplest in the sense that there's there's very little kind of extraneous material you don't have a lot of beliefs there aren't you know pantheons ons of bodhic sabas and Buddhas and sort of semi- divine and divine entities. It all comes down to the practice. That's really what Zen focuses on. And the practice is number one meditation as the growth point as what allows us to grow as humans and number two life ordinary daily life as a kind of extension of the meditation. And and in a way Zen almost doesn't really want to exist. It's and there is a there's a view that if when we really get Zen deeply, Zen kind of self-destructs, you know, like Mission Impossible tape, it vanishes. When you really when we really get the message, what it's trying to communicate, it's kind of not there anymore. The Zen part is not there anymore. So, I don't know. That's probably rather obscure, but that's >> No, that's that's direct. What would you how would you articulate the goal of Zen and Zen practice? What is the promise that it brings? >> Yeah. Look, so I got to acknowledge there are different kinds of Zen. Okay. So they probably all answer that differently. >> Yeah. >> Um in the school that I've trained in mostly Zen, >> they're fairly explicit about it. There's the hope, there's the possibility that we can go through a radical realization where we discover that what we've been all along is uh not invalidated but it's a it's a small part of the overall picture that you know the sense of I being basically inhabiting this skin bag this particular body you know me too >> right exactly that this is not what I am fundamentally yeah I totally you know this body mind heart this is this is what I think of as me but at the same time um the sense of this body being separate from all else is an illusion and it's actually possible for us humans and many traditions recognize this of course it's it's possible to recognize a much deeper self that is all inclusive that is timeless, that is spaceless, that is infinite, that has always been here and is unnameable. Actually, you can't there is no word for it, but you can experience it. And Zen, as as I've known it, trusts that all of us can recognize that. And you know we call it awakening some or realization some or recognition some might call it enlightenment but I don't know we're a little tentative with that word because it sounds quite grand. Um but we can recognize it and we can and it's you know often a turning point in a life to do so but that's really in a way stage one because the next part is how do we live it? How do we manifest what we've realized in our daily life? And that's that's the in a way that's more important, you know. Um, so that that's a that would be a very uh headline, topline level of stating what it's all about for Zen. >> Yeah, we'll we'll dive deeper into the the iceberg that's under the water, so to speak. Uh but for a bit more context in terms of the origination of Zen before it kind of bifrocated into many different >> disciplines uh could you give us the spark notes of how it came from India to China to Japan and the many different forms it took uh what's just like the overview of of how it came to be? >> Yeah totally. So there's history and there's a bit of mythology and they're really hard to tease apart but basically between about the so Buddhism develops you know in fourth or fifth century BCE in northern India with Shakimani Buddha and Sedata Gautama and his rigors and his training and his realization of the middle way and his his coming to a you know profound awakening becoming the Buddha the awakened one and in Zen's view the heart of um what he realized got transmitted or transferred from India to China in about 500 or 527 officially they they reckon um in CE you know the common era and it was this figure called Bodhi Dharma who is said to have sort of brought the practice of Zen Buddhism which was called Dana Hannah Buddhism this is their view it's really about meditation meditation Buddhism brought rather than lots of practices and liturgy and sutra studies doctrine doctrinal study just the core practice of sitting still as a human being that was brought from India to China this is the Zen official biography kind of thing in around yeah 527 CE by Bodhi Dharma In China, Bodhi Dharma there's various adventures and episodes in his life but the fundamental one was that he sat for 9 years on his own in a cave and that was how uh he planted this Zen form of Buddhism in China. This this call is is is all you know legend/history something and [snorts] out of bodhi Dharma's practice you know he had various disciples and they started to to spread this form of Buddhism there had already been Buddhism coming into China um and probably actually really Zen was the culmination of that process over several centuries but it but the I think it it's it emerged as a kind of distinct ive expression of Buddhism probably around 600 which was yeah founded on this real simplicity that you don't need a lot of beliefs you don't need doctrine in the end you don't even need scripture sutras you just need to examine your own experience and you can come to know it in a new way you can come to understand um the relationship between me and the world in a in a radically different way that relieves a lot of the pains of the human heart, you know, and it it allows our hearts actually to grow exponentially and be much more open and yeah, we we will um be concerned and motivated by compassion for the sufferings in this world. So, it's not a kind of you know uh withdrawal. It's very much about an an deeper engagement with the world coming out of the realization >> that we can that we can have. >> Sorry, I is that a you know actually I could carry on. that got us to China. But then it spreads, you know, it spreads to Japan, it spreads to Korea, it spreads to um Vietnam, you know, there are other forms of Zen that uh that uh you know exist to this day that are not this is not just the Japanese expression of it. You know, in China they called it Chan actually. Um, so you know it's yeah it's and like I said earlier it's it's got a it's got a mix in it of dowoism you know which which has um which has perhaps um more emphasis on as a result of that mixture there's more emphasis on say artistic expression you know one of the things that attracted me to Zen as a poet as a writer was that it has such a great rich history of poetry, of landscape painting, of calligraphy, you know, and of tea ceremonies. It's got these artistic expressions kind of woven into its history. And as a you know 20th 21st century writer and poet for me that was like a natural kind of meeting meeting ground that I found in Zen that I wouldn't have found so strongly in other kinds of practice. >> Do you think that's by in part your uh sort of inherent resistance to authority and tradition? Uh there's something beautiful about the directness of the path and how it doesn't require often parsing through a lot of dogmatic language or um even tradition in times to just sit with the directness of the experience it's offering. >> That is exactly right. Yeah. And you know I'd had a I mean I grew up in a fairly um conventionbound culture already in the UK you know back in the 60s and 70s when I was a kid. England was still quite I don't know it was quite a kind of conformist convention based kind of society compared to say California or something at the same time. Um and I didn't I didn't need to adopt another one. I didn't want to go into another set of cultural trappings. Um, I actually really wanted something that could meet, you know, my own experience directly and um and wasn't exactly, as you say, wasn't going to require kind of a whole slew of of of um of of doctrinal study, which is really kind of adopting yet another culture. I didn't really want that. It was I thought it and and Zen didn't didn't offer that. It was just about meeting human experience directly this very moment coming back to it again and again. You know I would love to fast forward and jump straight into the heart of your work your most recent book original love and the premise of what that is. Uh because I think that we have culturally programmed the opposite that we are fundamentally sinful creatures in the western Abrahamic fates at least the way they position it. >> Yeah. >> So what is the uh the proposition not only of the Zen tradition in which you share but uh of of so much of your work about who we are? >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, what what I what I've come to to find, you know, and um is that is that, you know, we got our surface sense of self that's trying to manage its existence in the world. Underneath that, we've got a kind of a deeper soul self that has a calling and that is that is that is kind of wired to grow and wants to grow and loves to grow and loves loves uh enriching experiences and and loves love, you know, and and is and is and is fearless and and that's beautiful. But deeper still, there's um the what what is sometimes called original nature or fundamental nature. And that's what I really mean by original love. It's a discovery that we're not separate. We're not separate from anything. That there's a different order of experience always right here where you know at the same time we're exactly who we think we are. this body, this mind, this heart, but we're also, yeah, boundless, timeless, infinite, and without size, without dimension, without history, without future, although history and future allowed, you know, but fundamentally they're just happening now. And in this kind of primordial present moment, um, because we're not separate in any way, because we're part of a great reality that is all inclusive. It's like love. To find it is like discovering an ultimate belonging. And it just fills the human heart with relief and joy and love to know it. And um it also can reorient us to lives of love and service and compassion um probably always imperfectly, but it can make that reorientation happen. So man, it's not just an original nature, it's an original love. That's that's what I feel. So yeah, to to bring that back to the notion of original sin, you know, I I don't accept that that fundamentally, you know, we're wrong, defective, bad, and that we've got to be redeemed from that. I I actually just I just don't believe that. I think maybe superficially we could use some help, you know, and certainly I have done and continue to actually and I think this is an important point. But deep down what we are is already, you know, an infinite, boundless, nameless reality, one of whose is unconditional love. So that's a long answer, but that's really what I think it comes down to. An unconditional love that is in our deepest nature. And finding that is like is the journey of a lifetime. It's the it's such a it's such an amazing thing to get to know that this isn't some thing I' I've achieved because of my arduous, you know, self-mortification or my rigorous spiritual practice practice. It's always been here. It's it's not an accomplishment. >> Yeah. >> You know, >> I think uh an amazing doorway into starting to glimpse that nature, our true nature for oursel, which is the most important instead of, you know, studying in a book, reading reading it, hearing it in a podcast, uh is first off to examine how scattered our minds are. And I think a lot of us understand the notion of bodies that are in shape, that are fit. You know, we have full industries uh billion multi-billion dollar industries focused on the on getting people in shape from the gyms to the wellness >> institutions and we get that but the mind because it's more invisible in nature we don't understand that it needs the same level of attention. Um especially this day and age maybe even more so. They're fundamentally connected. Uh but what is the connection there you think between working with the mind, our identification with our thoughts >> and then deeper on the path getting to glimpse our true original nature. Uh but start us a bit earlier on the journey. Most of us feel really >> uh swayed and identified with this voice in our head. >> Yeah. It's so it's so true. Yeah. No. Well, I think you know in in my book original love actually I pars out these four main areas of development that we can go through in our spiritual lives and of course this could be sliced and diced many ways. I totally acknowledge that but I think these four I call them ins like refuges I think they are a reasonable way of looking at it. And the first is mindfulness, you know, and mindfulness be means becoming aware of what's actually going on around me and within me. and and um most of us and myself totally included, you know, when I began uh the path of of meditative training, you know, for nearly 40 years ago, um I had no idea that I was actually listening to a voice in my head so much of my waking hours and it was not a very friendly, kind, supportive, helpful voice. it was doing, you know, a lot of like you got to do this, you failed at that, you're no good, you know, and this is awful and all that kind of, you know, disturbing language was going on. And and even when it wasn't disturbing, it was still chattering away, commenting, and, you know, a running commentary. to become aware of that is a big shift because the moment we notice oh I'm aware here I am aware and there's this voice that's already created a little bit of a gap between me and the voice whereas previously just exactly as you said on been totally identified with it that somehow this voice is me being me well it's not it's thought arising in a in a verbal form, you know, which which happens a lot for for for a lot of the time for a lot of people. So, becoming mindful uh allows us to be aware of that voice and to have a little break from it, gap from it, distance from it, and space around it. And we start to find that we can actually inhabit that space rather than the voice. It's a great relief. >> I think such a liberating aspect of of that is when you start to have some distance and between you and your thoughts and emotions, you feel more free in your life. And so much of what we thought we were going to externally gain and would be the cause of our freedom externally, whatever sort of arrangements, career, relationships, whatnot, uh we can approach those things less under the illusion they're going to provide us the solace we once thought they would. >> Yeah. >> And so let's keep going down these these ins. So what would be the next the next in so to speak? >> Yeah. Yeah. Can I just add something to that cuz I >> [laughter] >> It's like we get so locked into this world before us and we're so preoccupied with it and then when we stop doing something we get preoccupied with the cloud of thoughts that come up. So it's it's finding that actually we can let go a little bit. We can put down the tasks. We can put down the thoughts and there's this gray space. So that's that's right on. Okay. Um, second in is yeah, it's it's about really I needed to state this. It's about support and connection and I needed to state it because so much of the modern mindfulness movement is focusing on mindfulness as a thing that I do. It's just for me and it's just my own sole responsibility. And it doesn't it doesn't really point us to the the the total connectivity of our lives that we're already in a great field of connections and of support. You know that that we you know look look at a human body all the factors that have to come together for a human being to exist. All of that is a form of support and infinite connection allowing us just to exist. you know then you know we've all got families. We may have varying relationships with them but we are part of a family. We're also part of the whole human family. We're also you know nourished every minute by breath by the food we take in by the water we drink. Um yeah and yeah the air we breathe and you know the earth we stand on all of that and the warmth that we need constantly every moment of our lives we're actually bearing the fruit of so much support we're expressing so much support that is making us exist. So to to be acknowledging that seemed to me really important that it's so mindfulness too is not an isolated solo pursuit. It's not like me just going to the gym and doing reps, you know. Um, it's actually helping me recognize that I'm part of infinite networks and that I'm not alone. And and that's why in the old traditional Buddhist view, yeah, there was practice. Doing your practice is critical, but so was community. What they call SA, you know, it's the third refuge. There's there's places where the Buddha said he was asked is is SA um like I've heard you say Buddha somebody said to him an and said to him one of his disciples I've heard you say that SA is half of the holy life would you agree with that no SA is the whole of the holy life it's all about community and connection so for us to just remember that that's why the second in is in and that is in my is in my scheme team and and my book original love and also by the way on the app we work through these ins we call them zones in the app in the same way but so um but let me just say that that is not only in the visible and kind of material level of connections we have with friends and and and guides and coaches and whatever therapists whatever we might have you know teachers mentors It's also uh in a kind of less tangible form as well I believe which we some call the archetypal realm. You know shamanism can take us to it. Dreamwork can take us to it. Um, meditation actually can open us up to more receptivity to a kind of archetypal imaginal realm as some call it which is a little bit like Jung's collective unconscious where there's levels of connectivity that we don't see but we're truly part of. Um, and I think that's, you know, that's really important. I feel it's like soul soul work recognizing a deeper part of ourselves that has as I said earlier has its calling in this world in this life and wants to grow and and you know this art comes from it and self-exression of different kinds you know I think that's a really important side of our spiritual lives and we don't want to get too sterile like kind of slightly uh dry mindfulness you know No, it's a rich thing, you know. So, that would be the second in. Yeah. >> Amazing. We'll keep keep riding the train. What's the third stop? >> Yeah, the third stop is like um it's it's actually um it's it's what Buddhism calls samadi or sometimes translated concentration. I don't think that's a good translation myself. It's more like absorption and it's when we get into flow states basically. It could be flow states from activities, but it can also be if we're if we have a practice of meditation in meditation, you can drop into these really beautiful flow like states where, you know, and and even novice meditators will know this where, you know, we've been we're used to finding it a bit of a grind, kind of hard and what am I supposed to do? Follow my breath? I can't do that. Be aware of the present moment. Oh no, I'm just lost in thought. But then we'll suddenly get this these moments when we don't exactly know how or why, but suddenly we're clear, we're calm. Uh experience is very rich and beautiful and it's like we're effortlessly doing the practice. We're suddenly, oh my gosh, this is what it's all about. I never knew I could find this clear, free, easy awareness that's that's really attentive. That's samadei that's flow states in meditation and it's beautiful. What are what are jannaas and so how does that go in here? >> Yeah, they they fall into this category. Janna states are these it's a set of slightly different flavors of absorption that that you can learn to bring on in meditation. There's a there are some subtle kind of slightly technical methods for getting into Janice states which are progressively more refined and powerful states of absorption. Would you rank them? I suppose it's futile to you, but like on levels of deepness or profoundness of experience, I'm I'm curious to hear your maybe it relates to your own personal experience in uh altered states. Um but what are a sample platter of these different states one might find themselves in as they do this work? >> Yeah. Well, you know, I've got to say right off the bat that I believe these are real natural human states. They're not like >> altered in the sense. Yeah. >> Yeah. In a way they're not then they're built into us I think to be able to drop into them. I had them as a kid. I I found out later when I did some Janna training said oh my gosh I this used to happen to me. I had very severe eczema as a kid right through my childhood chronic and severe. I was sometimes hospitalized for it and you know like skin problem and it was very very difficult to live with actually. It was, you know, the itch, the pain, the burning, the it was very very difficult. And but at times usually when I was in bed at night and couldn't go to sleep um because of the itching I would suddenly find myself in this different state where um it felt like I was kind of held in this sort of glowing cloud or something like that and that all the pain and all the itching would have stopped and it was it was it was beautiful and very very peaceful. And when I first did Janna training many many years later and suddenly the gear shifted and I was in this beautiful glowing peaceful state with this sort of rippling field of energy all through me. And when I described it to the the trainer I was working with, the meditation teacher I was working with, um I said, "Oh, hey, this thing happened that used to happen to me as a kid. It's so beautiful." They said, "Oh, yeah, that's first Janna and second Janna." You you know, and so that's how I knew that these aren't artificial or something, you know, they're real deep in us, but they >> just a note on that. I think it's really it's an important point that these actually aren't altered states. They are from the perspective of an identified conventional self, but from the perspective of our true self, these are natural states and actually the identification with our ego and thoughts is actually the altered state. >> That's beautifully put. Thank you. I I exactly right on. And um and you know, they can get more refined. So the third Janus, it's all about this joy and well-being. It's very peaceful. It's force janna. You know, you're in equinimity and it's all pervasive. And then you get those are the first four. And then there's another set of four that are considered the formless janers cuz they're the one is about boundless space. One is about boundless mind. And they get emptier and more refined as you go. Could we dive into one? So boundless mind or boundless space. >> Yeah. from the subjective intrinsic experience of that what is that experience like how would you describe that >> yeah it's very beautiful you know bounded space there's a sense that you know you can feel that from your heart outward there's just one space and it has no limit and it's a very it the heart is always engaged actually because it's so beautiful and you feel it's all everything's encompassed in one great space, you know, and and then bound this mind is everything is encompassed in one consciousness. It's also very it's sort of moving. I find I I almost get a little tearful in them because they're so beautiful. And it's amazing to me that so much peace and joy and love could come with so little. Like it's not cuz you're in a, you know, much as I love a fabulous home, it's not cuz you're in one. You could be sitting in a hut and find this. You could, you could be, you know, virtually penniless and you could find such deep contentment in your very own being. I find that so beautiful. Hey there, quick share. If you've ever landed in another country and immediately had to hunt for Wi-Fi or deal with overpriced roaming fees, you know how annoying that can be. That's why I recommend using SY. It's an eSIM app that gives you affordable data plans in over 200 destinations. So, you can set it up before you even leave. Have fast, reliable internet the moment you land. No physical SIM cards required. No airport kiosks or roaming surprises. It's all handled right from your phone. and it can be super clutch, like it was for me on my recent trip to Bali. It also has built-in cyber security features, things like web protection and malicious ad blocking, so you're not just connected, you're protected. If you want to check it out, go to the link in the description and try SY for your next trip. To do so, you can download SY in the app store or by scanning the QR code on screen. Use code know thyself at checkout to save 15% off your first purchase. The details are in the description. and I hope you enjoy. Back to the show. >> Yeah, we just had uh one of the per like one of the most prolific veta vanta teachers on Swami Sabra Priyaandanda and he was sharing about uh there's this great non-dual book called I am that >> that that book is on is actually in my Lou I read it every day. Yeah. >> Oh amazing. Yeah. Sina Saratara Maharaj and he had this experience where he was went off to the Himalayas and had this enlightening experience and realize he doesn't need to be up there. He go back into the slums uh which is you know stricken with poverty and actually there is nothing wrong with it um and live the rest of his life in that in that place in that state. in the deepening of these genres and having it more be embedded in your day-to-day experience. Home isn't a place that you try to seek externally. It becomes more and more the place in the presence you are wherever you go. And I think the most important thing on the spiritual path is to actually have like have taste a taste of this. >> Not just reading the menu but having the meal. It's like in the intrinsic experience of this >> where it becomes self-evident. Maybe you're looking at a view, you're out looking at the horizon and suddenly this experience of someone perceiving something outside of yourself dissolves and it just becomes one thing which I know you've had obviously I'm sure many but uh earlier on as well with a sunset experience. >> Yeah. >> Yes. Well, look, we're jumping we're jumping ahead a tiny bit now because in in my view these Janna states aren't quite the same as realization >> and which is the fourth in. So, but I need to get to the fourth in to explain why I think we'll keep on going then. >> Should we do that? >> Yeah. So the formless >> yeah the formless janers are getting that's as close as you can get to realization or awakening without awakening. Okay that's Henry's view and it's it's pretty consistent with a lot of Buddhist views as well. Um it's a little complex because the word samatti has got different meanings. In the vadic world there are at least three levels of samadi and only the first one is the Buddhist view of samadi where samati is you haven't yet realized you haven't yet had realization but you're in a very deep beautiful state and and and whereas in in the vadic view yeah there's the two other forms of samadei are are the same as realization. So you got to just yeah the terminology gets a little tricky and it also gets tricky because these are all very refined states of mind anyway. But here's the thing in the fourth in there's a decisive thing that happens which you don't need to have happened for the Janna states. You've seen through your sense of self it's not just that the sense of self has gone quiet which it definitely does in Janna but you seen through it. you seen that it was actually never here the way you thought to begin with. And this can happen um this can happen in in different ways. I mean the first thing actually I got to say about realization is it's actually not contingent on practice which is a pretty radical thing. You don't need to have practiced in order to have realization or awakening. You don't even you can practice a lot and not have realization slashawwakening. It's a different order. Now I want to I'm going to just let me can I tell you a quick story personal >> again? No, you can't. [laughter] >> Yeah, let her rip. You know, when I was 19, before I'd done any practice at all, I had a moment of of quite significant realization, awakening that landed on me. And I had no idea what it was except that it was the truth. It was the truth of my life. And um I was Yeah. I was standing on a beach watching the sun go down. And I was looking at the light on the water and I noticed that it wasn't just one brightness. It was like pieces of brightness, scales of brightness on the water moving over this totally black surface of the water, bright and black. And I couldn't is it bright? Is it dark? I could was trying to figure it out. And all of a sudden um me and what I was looking at stopped being two things. There was only one world, one reality. And both the water and any sense of Henry were both that reality. So the distinction had gone. And actually I dropped right in then to this unbounded empty substance that was no substance that was what the universe was made of. And I knew to the bottom of my being all through my bones that I was made of the universe and I was not separate from it and never had been and never could been never could be because we were one thing that was not really a thing but it was absolute absolutely one. And I sort of emerged from that, you know, realized I was a person standing on a beach again. And and and then I was just enveloped by the sense of all of this, this whole life, this whole world, all of us. It's it's a dream, a most beautiful, sublime dream. And it's all made of love. Like an immemorial love just enveloped everything. And and you know it was it was I knew it was real and and I was so blown away by it that I felt I had fulfilled my life that whatever the whatever the purpose of this life had been which to be honest I'd never thought about really before. I'd never really thought what's my purpose. I'd just been following what I was told. Studying and sports, gymnastics, I did whatever, you know. But in this moment, suddenly it just was like a wave of love just enveloped me after right after that experience, you know, and and it was like I've had a purpose in this life. It was to realize exactly what I've just realized. And actually years later I I heard um Yogananda um saying in a in an old documentary you know this life is a movie it's a motion picture and the purpose of life is to turn around and see the projector. And I when I heard that I thought oh my gosh that's so beautifully put. That's exactly how I felt when I was 19 and this thing happened. But you know what I really want to say is really important here in my for me is that actually my life didn't end then. I could have died happily that night knowing my life was fulfilled but it didn't end. And a few weeks later I went back home. I'd been far away from home when this happened. I went back home and it was when I went home that actually I got overwhelmed by the unagnowledged trauma of my childhood which I had put a lot of effort into suppressing. I'd evolved these adaptive personalities, subpersonalities, parts so that I could deal with the with the very difficult aspects of my childhood, traumatic, complex childhood trauma that I grew up with. But I'd managed to kind of avoid feeling it because it was too much through my childhood with adapt adaptations. When I went home at 19 after this experience, all those adaptive strategies had been ripped away. I was wide open, which was very beautiful. I was so open and full of love and very aware of suffering in the streets when around me. I was in South America at the time and so on. Soon as I got home, literally almost walked through the door of my father's house, but actually an hour later, I was just overwhelmed by these terrible memories and emotions in my body of my childhood that I had not been able to feel as a kid, had avoided, suppressed, buried. But the awakening opened me so I could feel them. But at that time I had no resources and I didn't want to feel them. I thought it was a catastrophe that I could be feeling these terrible things and I thought I'd lost that marvelous awakening and I went into to despair. And I think this is I really feel this is a crucial part of this whole process that we humans can go through of awakening. It's also healing. It's always I think going to be both awakening and healing because for me uh it I was a very reluctant sort of client patient needer of healing. I didn't want to know about it even then at 19. And it took me well several years, three years, four years of being really unhappy, drinking, you know, at university and kind of dragging myself through life gradually finding a little more joy with music. Actually, I was a musician and writing again and you know, but then I found meditation and almost as soon as I started meditating, I realized, man, I'm unhappy. you know, and I started therapy and I started dealing with all the trauma in my childhood. And you know, it's been a kind of twin journey of awakening and healing, how to live more consistently and get actually even more deeply into whatever that was that I opened up to, but also be dealing with this suffering, troubled, traumatized human being. And I I think the mercy of this path is that it doesn't leave either behind. >> I think a lot of us are under this assumption that these two things are fused. Um that like the spiritual or contemplative work will solve the parts work, the healing work, the growing up. >> Yeah. >> And uh I think they are intrinsically linked, very complimentary but not the same. And you know, it's it's something we talk about quite a bit because I think it's really important to have a holistic understanding of what awakening means, right? And under just the meditative contemplative lens, we can wake up beyond the idea of being identified with our thoughts and emotions. We can have these more formless Janna state experiences. uh and it doesn't fix the it can some ways it can make it even uh >> harder to take seriously these like characterological stuff >> um I think it makes it easier to work with because we're less reactive to them in your case it made space for that to come to the surface right >> yes >> but any other thoughts you have there on the importance between the two and how they're both essential but uh they don't necessarily solve one another Yeah, I think it's really important to state like you cuz I think um you know in a therapeutic context um I've never been in a therapeutic context that really deeply understood awakening and but they didn't really know that they didn't really understand it. And I've also been in meditative contemplative contexts that didn't really understand trauma and thought that they were the fix for everything. So I love this. There's an in early Chinese Buddhism from the sixth century, there's a document that talks about the path of practice as a cart track, not a path. You know, we talk about like often talk about like spiritual paths. It's the path up the mountain or something. But this this idea, the cart track says no, it's not a path. It's a track. Meaning there are two wheel tracks. And it says the first wheel track is the foundations of mindfulness. And by that it means this early Buddhist training. You gradually develop your mindfulness and it expands. It gets deeper and deeper. You get into Janas maybe you get a realization but it's a gradual cultivation of the human mind body heart system the second wheel track running parallel to it all along just like a car track is awakening so rather than it being a journey to the mountain up the mountain awakening is alongside all the way which I think is accurate it's also because it's always here And it also it's not affected by in a certain way it's not affected by the practice the gradual cultivation and development that we we probably all need to do to some degree which is a beautiful thing as well. But what happens is that the more we're working on the gradual developmental side the more open we become to maybe having glimpses of the awakening side. The more we might glimpse the awakening side, the more space there is to work with the gradual I call it healing side. And and somehow I think this is a really helpful metaphor. It's not a single journey to the destination. In a certain way, all the ultra traditions are right. The destination's here all along. But to actually glimpse it and integrate it, uh, we probably need to do all this gradual work basically on ourselves and on our relationships and on our trauma, on our history, on our collective trauma, >> on our ancestral trauma, let alone of course our personal trauma that and so I feel that um, coming back to purpose, you know, I I feel in some way purpose of my life anyway has been to clarify the deepest level who I really am but also to work through all the things that I would think of as obstacles to that because they're part of the path. They're not obstacles. They're the meat of the path. They're the they're the nourishment of the path is all a trauma. Yes, my personal trauma but also collective but and now also in a certain point in my path it became uh I was called I was asked actually by my teachers to start sharing and teaching myself. So it's also been part of my path to be sharing this >> you know to the best of my ability and in full humility because I'm still a student as well. >> Yeah. No, it it's great. It's easy to simplify awakening to a bumper sticker, you know, but in many ways it's been said the the matured intellect is the capacity to hold paradox conflicting ideas. Um, and what I love the way that you phrase what you just shared is that it's like awakening is the path. It is the two tracks. It it is the process instead of this one place you'll get to one day. >> Yeah. >> It's always here. It's it's all inclusive. Your purpose isn't someday when or just in relation to the world, but it is your being, your presence. And I think that when you shared your sunset story, that moment of insight and awakening. >> Yeah. >> Like that level of fulfillment, that ontological experience of completeness, of wholeness, of undividedness, you could say, is integrity also. >> Yes. the root of integrity being integras, you know, the >> undivided whole sense uh within. >> Yeah. >> And I think so much of our endeavors in life are in pursuit of that whether or not we articulate it. >> Yes. And so I just I I love that we acknowledge that because the uh the reality is it's so easy to hear this on a podcast, read it in a book, go back into our life under the presumption that things aren't the way they should be. Um, I think this insight equips us to meet life fully and the inevitable challenges and health issues and societal troubles and suffering and some sorrow with an open heart and actually more more capacity to to be an effective agent of change in the world. Yeah, I I totally agree and I and I found on my own journey that how I show up as hopefully an effective agent of change. That's changed. That itself has changed. I mean, for example, for 10 years, I was just, you know, hardcore running a Zen center in Santa Fe, Mount Cloud Zen Center. That was I thought I'd be doing that till I died. But COVID came, the center shuttered right around then. I had a head injury which really affected my my cognitive capacity. Actually, I also had a very difficult uh you know situation with somebody who was very dear to me going getting into a very very very very challenging long-term life-threatening difficult situation which was heartbreaking and all of these they all happened at the same time and um I I had to change how I was teaching and that's where I came up with this terminology original love and that map of practice uh which you of course it comes out of the traditions, but it was a slight slight uh simplification and reform reforming of of the view. And um I couldn't um I was much less uh I I just had to live from my heart. I couldn't live from my head anymore because it was it had had a blow struck to it and my heart had had a blow struck to it. I just had to get into my heartbreak and live from my open heart and and that's what I aspire to be doing, you know, really. I aspire to do it all the time. >> Yeah. >> You know, I [laughter] I have my moments, but I have moments both ways, you know. >> Yeah. >> Doing it better and worse, you know, but but you know, that wasn't what I was doing 10 for 10 years of teaching. Kind of some of it was there. Um because I'd been through quite a deep other realization experience in the course of my Zen training uh which was different from that beach moment. I had had a number of yeah a number of significant milestone moments but one of them blew everything away. It was just everything everything just totally gone and and thereafter every moment being a new world arising arising arising you know and that was very heartful as well and that's what I that's why I was asked to become a zen teacher actually really cuz because this this was a real shift that really knocked away a lot of my um you know neurotic trouble was actually really blown away by that um and I thought that was it till I die. But I was wrong cuz then this you know the co stuff and the head injury and the heart blow it it took me to another place again which is uh living from my heart fully or aspiring to as I said. >> So there are innumerable paths to come to that realization. I'm curious as somebody who is one of the few teachers authorized in your lineage out here in the west and who understands through through that lens more than most people. Um I'm curious how would you articulate what distinguishes Zen as a path? What is like what's truly its flavor comparatively? Um, as there are so many different conversations and lineages and disciplines that we explore on the show, >> what would you say is really the heart of what distinguishes Zen as Zen >> ensemble? Yeah, you know, that's I'll try to do that with the caveat that I don't know the other traditions as deeply and so because a lot of them the deeper you go, you know, they're so complex and there's nuances and so I don't want to caricature >> any any other tradition. But I'll say this about the Zen that I've been trained in, it has this view that all of us can have these moments of realization and that that's not the end. that you can get them more deeply. They there's a sequence of pictures called the ox herding pictures in Zen which mark out a path of practice and spiritual development. And you know the first one the ox herder recognizes that they've lost their ox. And so the second one they go looking for it and they pick up the hoof prints of the ox and they follow the hoof prints. The third one they catch a glimpse of part of the ox like the hind quartarters showing out of a bush or the horns over a fence or something and suddenly they know there's a living being. There really is a living being and that's a moment of realization of awakening. >> There's a there there >> there's a there there calls a kencho seeing your original nature. Ken show sudden staggering moment. Oh my gosh, it's real. But it's only a glimpse and it's only part of the beast. There's a long process of training till you get to see the whole the whole ox and you get hold of it. >> You just saw the the ass. >> You just saw the ass. Exactly. But now you see the whole thing and it doesn't go away. And that for me was what happened with that deeper experience I was talking about. It became present and accessible always. Then you train it. That's the fifth picture actually we got to. And the sixth one you ride it home. And then the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth. No more ox. The ox disappears from the pictures. It's become second nature. And you're no longer concerned with the journey of awakening. You're concerned with a journey of helping and of service in this world. Whatever, however that, however you may be called to express that. And I think there's such deep wisdom in that notion that actually because it seems all all-encompassing to to get this deep awakening and be able to live live with it. That seems like a total path in itself. But Zen sort of says no that's a phase and you can go beyond that. One of my one of my Zen teachers actually is a great guy from the Philippines, Ruben Abito Roshi. He always would say it's like Toy Story Buzz Lightyear to infinity and beyond. [laughter] And the beyond is right this this here now. Us having this conversation, you know, which is both ultimate reality right here and exactly this, you know, I'm a little bit thirsty. I'm going to have a sip of water. We're dialoguing talking about the 10 oxiding pictures right now. Who knows what we'll talk about next, but you know this is it. It's so it's a real emphasis on not checking out. It's not a path out of the world. It's a path deeply into the world. You know, and I think this is a really important flavor of Zen. It's not I'm going to escape this world of suffering. No, I'm going to realize its true nature and re-enter it ever more deeply. >> How do coans as a technology come into the picture here? >> Thank you for asking that. I was hoping we might get to them. >> Yeah, me too. It's a really it's a it's a yeah co-ands they're a they're a they're a distinctive feature then they're not unknown in other traditions but let me say just a tiny a coan is a little phrase sometimes a question sometimes it's a phrase describing something that somebody did from the history of Zen and early Buddhism so you have cos from the time of the historical Buddha And you have coands from the early great days of Zen, the sixth century, 7th, 8th, 9th centuries in China. Mostly they're from those time periods. >> And what they do is they kind of encapsulate one practitioner's deep awakening and but they do it in very paradoxical ways that make no [clears throat] sense to the intellect, to the ordinary mind. So for example, there's a famous one. You know the sound of two hands clapping. What is the sound of one hand? What is the sound of one hand? Now you know people might I've had people you know when I was teaching with cos people might come and go there. That's the sound of one hand. Uh no it's okay. That's fine. You know whatever you've you've presented something and but that's not what this coh is Some people can clap with one hand too. [laughter] >> Yeah. Right. But this is it's actually like it's a paradox. It's inviting us into awakening. Basically, it's what it's doing. It's inviting us into this actually this undivided organism of this present moment where nothing's separate. So, one hand, two hands, 10,000 hands, you know, it's actually all one. But it's inviting us to realize that for ourselves. So the what's what's so that's just one example. There's there's hundreds of them. >> What would you extract from that? What is the sound of one hand? And you're cuz as as a teacher in this lineage, you've had to pass hundreds of coands. >> Yeah. >> To sort of be like authorized to teach in the way you do. Um, and the way that you're describing it is like these paradoxical puzzle seeming, you know, phrases don't make sense to the intellect, but they point to once you're in the state, uh, sort of an obvious realization becomes self-evident as to the nature it's it's referring to or pointing to. Yes. >> So, in that example, how would you how would you >> if I was your if I was your your teacher and I proposed this coan, you know, a thousand years ago. Yeah. >> What would be an answer that you would give to that one? >> I have to be a little careful here. >> Okay. >> Cuz cuz um we don't there's a sort of protocol. >> Okay. [laughter] >> I'm not being too public about about it. I we can talk about them and around them a lot, but I can tell you this. Um I would need to show it to you, not talk about it. >> I'd need to show you. And in the way I showed it, you as the teacher would be looking to feel that I'm really presenting my realization of the all the world and me as being one thing. There's nobody here. There's exactly this body, mind, heart here. And it's all inclusive. So I'd need to show you the sound of one hand in a way that you could feel as a teacher my realization. >> That's sort of the >> Yeah. Yeah. So it's it's a little strange because cos are words but in almost every case when you meet with a teacher with them you have to embody it and you don't you don't you occasionally you show it with words but it's got to be an embodied experience. Usually you show it with something you actually do as a movement as a gesture as something. You usually show them with your body because they're about embodying realization. So this is actually another special feature of Zen. >> It's like awakened charades. [laughter] >> It sort of sort of is. >> Not to bastardize [laughter] thousand-y old lineage, but uh I'm just I'm trying to picture what it means. You know, >> it can seem that way. But when you do it, when you do this presentation, this embodied presentation of it, you feel it. You feel, oh, you're back in awakening instantly. And that's the value of this training is that it's like yes, you've been graced and blessed with a moment of realization, but how is it going to become part of your life, integrated into your life? And that's what the Kan training is for. It's to embody it. So you don't do it by thinking about them. And you know that they'll thwart every avenue of thinking. You know, somebody's trying to understand a coin and it's very natural. Suddenly you get given one and of course you start thinking about it and you're meditating and thinking about it and you get nowhere you know and then all of a sudden when you're not thinking about it you suddenly have some insight into it and you feel it in your body and you know what to do and you when you next see the teacher you just do it you know and and you feel uh this is how it's been for me in my training you know you feel that you and the teacher are somehow, you know, it's a single field. The room you're in, you the teacher, the coand, it's all becomes one and you just know the rest of the world drops away and you got it, you know, and then, you know, you have a chat and you go on to the next one. So, it it it brings you back to embodying awakening repeatedly. And that's I think precious. It's something about the body being involved is so critical. Yeah. I think a lot of people might think here at Coan and think of it from the way we've been trained to think of education especially in the west. It's like a multiple choice. There's a right answer to give, right? as opposed to a phrase written in English shared verbally that dissolves into a state of experience that is a level of embodiment. Beautifully put. >> Well, I I want to pass the baton back over to you because I think you're you're you're sharing this wonderfully. So, yeah, I would I would love to hear more in your experience of like how this the Kan as like a technology brings you into these states and these experiences and awakenings. >> Maybe we could share a couple more. And I'm just so fascinated. >> Yeah, there's [clears throat] there's a there's a view that you know there's a handful of early cos which are called breakthrough cos and you you know once somebody's had a significant opening with one of them then they can start working on the whole long you know there's four or five books of coins actually that we work through. So then somebody can start doing that because they've had the critical breakthrough of realization to some degree. They've got some glimpse of it. Um some of those early ones are like a cross a cross traditions. You know who am I? Who am I? That's a that's taken up as a co. Sometimes it's refined a little bit to like who's hearing who's seeing you know like you know who we are. You know, we're we're gazing at each other as we have this conversation. But who is actually the seer? You know, like very clear what is being seen. But who is it that's seeing? You know, we can ask ourselves that who is really here doing the seeing, you know, and the more we look back into that, we might find it's not so easy to answer. where I felt well there's this little sensation that I think of as me but it's just a sensation or there's an idea narrative in my mind a story of me who I think I am has been through the experiences that you know this this being has been through that's me but it's just thoughts who really am I and we can we can ask that sort of you know deeper and deeper the the lens can perfectly aligned on this sense of me and suddenly boom I don't want to say actually but suddenly we might just suddenly see it's not what I thought you know and so that's great and then we would come to the teacher and describe what we've experienced and say yes yes that's an important realization great opening you've had let me give you another coat And then you'd work through all these different cards if you wanted to. And one is make Mount Fuji take three steps. >> Make Mount Fuji take three steps. >> Yeah. Yeah. So there's one. How on earth do I do that? That's crazy. But actually after a moment of realization, we might we might think about it and still not really get it, but we might just know what to do >> and and uh or it might come to us. I'm going to try that. You know, so you try that. Lo and behold, yes. The teacher says, "Yes, yes, I'm seeing it. I'm seeing it." As you do that, I'm experiencing the reality of this Cohen. And you get it as well. Oh my gosh. This is I'm embodying realization in what I'm doing. So, okay. Is this is this kind of landing? Is this making some sense? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> It's it's I know it's weird. There's tons of them. There's one where there's this master called Dong Shan and he was the story is that he was sitting in a kind of granary in the monastery maybe at a table counting out or weighing out hemp and and and the student it seems the coine goes what is Buddha or what is awakened nature you know what is Buddha and Dongan answered three pounds of flax. Three pounds of flax. [laughter] So he thought that he was probably in this granary weighing flax and it just hit the three pound mark. So he just said three pound of flax because it's exactly the moment that is in right then and there. So um you know because it can't be it can't be something other. It's always this. So you know what is Buddha lifting glass of water glass twothirds full this is Buddha you know beautiful actually very beautiful glass you know or it's a warm sock you know it's in other words it's bringing us back to this moment so so here's a little point I just made to summarize this is like cos are not trying to get us to some other place where they are. They're an invitation pointing us back to our own experience now. Always here and now. >> How many coons have you passed as a part of your practice? [snorts] >> Well, I've been through um there's they say there's 670 in our curriculum. I don't I don't know exactly if that's right but some 600 or something but you know I've done I've done them multiple times with different teachers >> and then I've done them with students so and I've talked about all of them and so I've been kind of working with them all a number of times not just once. >> What does it feel like from the perspective of the teacher when you give a to a student and they pass? What does it feel like for you? Oh gosh, it's amazing cuz you know, basically it's like, you know, most people would would start like with a first one of those early breakthrough cards and and you know, who knows how long they'll sit with it, but you know, usually what happens when somebody's had a breakthrough is that they'll they'll come and see the teacher, you know, and there like they don't know what just happened. if it's on a retreat, so it's fresh or it may have happened a week ago or something. They come and and you can feel right away very kind of open and light when they walk in. You can just feel it in in your own body and mind and heart and they'll say, "God, this totally weird thing happened. I can still feel it actually. It was so so strange. I don't know what it was." Well, well, tell me about it. What what what was it like? And they'll they'll always have a specific time. Well, I was in the supermarket. I was I was in the frozen aisle and I was just reaching for this bag of peas and all of a sudden it's like it wasn't me doing it. It was like the whole universe was reaching for the I can't I don't know what to say, Henry. I can't describe it. It was really like everything was there and there was there was nowhere else and and and it was like this is what it had always been just as I was reaching for the peace. I I don't get it. And okay, that's a breakthrough experience where suddenly the ordinary sense of self with this narrative is cut. is interrupted and instead there's this infinite boundless reality and but it you know people will be often just really kind of like but I don't know what it was but when they're describing it you you can see oh my gosh you seem it's all one there's no self there's you know it's actually maybe all empty there's no time there's no space everything's here these kinds of things so it's thrilling It's thrilling as a teacher because you you they suddenly realized recognized something fundamental about who we are. There's something very refreshing in the way that Zen phrases a lot of this path to awakening where you're sort of not I would say literally dying into the ordinariness of experience like >> yes >> a lot of especially maybe on the more shamanic paths or psych psychedelic paths even through the study of the eight limbs or various different yogic traditions there can be this early on presumption that like there's There's a state once I achieve I will then be enlightened and it can almost further the perception of duality. >> Yes. >> Uh and whether it's the three lb flax or the 2/3 cup full of water. Uh there's something so profound in bringing this insight into the everyday mundane ordinariness of washing dishes of of folding your laundry. And where else could it be found? That's that's that's beautifully put. That's exactly the point. Where else could it be? It's because it's so easy for us to think it's down the road, but it it can't be because only now. There is only now. There really is only now. And I was just teaching a retreat with a with an old dear friend and mentor of mine um Joan Roshi Joan Halifax and and she came up with this phrase that I just love actually the organism of the present moment. We join when we join the organism of this of now it's undivided. It's undivided. It's all inclusive. Nothing's you know in this very now here. I mean I'm talking about this one not some theoretical one down this very moment everything's here and it's undivided it's one reality and you know an opening a breakthrough a realization an awakening is recognizing that this very now is all there is and ticklers Vietnamese their master used to say this there is only the present moment and everything is here. [laughter] It's so beautiful, you know, it's such a mercy because, you know, we think we got to earn and get to this marvelous place called awakening or something and liberation, realization. We think we got to get there and earn it. No, it's already here. It's much more about releasing, letting go, allowing, you know, not not fighting, not reaching, grasping, not resisting. It's much more about dropping stuff. you know the many things that we don't recognize we're carrying ideas and body sensations emotions just to let it all be is actually the that's what opens us up you know and so I I sometimes wonder with Zen and with other paths like like do we have methodologies try to do this try to focus on a co try to focus Focus on your breath just to keep the mind busy so that reality can sneak in around the back [laughter] and come in and show itself because we're not trying to find it. We're trying to do the practice. >> Yeah. >> Therefore, the reality of this moment could show up. >> Yeah. Yeah. No, I mean it it makes total sense and I feel like many meditative practices are giving the mind which is a dog or a monkey a toy to a toy to chew on, you know? >> Exactly. [laughter] Yeah. And then the the real dog owner can show up all of this moment right here. >> Yeah. >> And then practice becomes and meditation becomes less of something we do, more of something we are. But the the beauty of having a a practice that you're devoted to and you're disciplined with allows more of these spontaneous moments to appear like they become like you're you're you're providing more and more opportunities for these realizations to come in because you're less distracted with the doom scrolling and our perceived problems and all of these things. I I I totally agree and I think it's also about the when you've got a path of practice, you've got something to bring them to. It's like there's a you've already got this medium into which you can start integrating. So that's like me when I was 19. I had no path of practice to which I could bring what I'd realized. It was just this thing that had happened but I had nothing no way of grounding it and integrating it you know >> and I I sometimes think like at times I felt man I'm so grateful to my path of practice for all it's given me and I remember there's a point I don't know 20 years ago or something when I suddenly thought no I'm so grateful to my path of practice for what it's let me give it all the things I've been able to let go of and hand over to this path of practice. That's equally valuable >> that it's it's this it's yeah it's this it receives all this stuff from me that actually I kind of need to let go of or I I can let go of and I didn't know I could. >> So it's a reduction not an acquisition. [laughter] >> I think that's pretty much true actually of this path. Yeah, >> it we're so programmed to view from the lens of acquisition though. >> Yes. >> Like more means more things, more acquisition, more money, more followers, whatever it is, right? >> Yes. Yes. >> Um >> Yeah. Who would have thought how much we gain by losing? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. And it's one of those counterintuitive things where it's like from that from that state of realization, you I personally feel like there's actually nothing to gain and nothing to lose. Like um >> Yes. >> And I find more and more freedom in making space for emptiness both internally and externally. >> Right. >> Anything that doesn't serve a purpose that isn't intentionally placed in my home, give it away, sell it, get rid of it. And that >> and I also think of like the value of any room is actually not the stuff that's it's filled with but the actual emptiness in the space of the room which makes us so we can sit down and have this conversation you know it's and uh so like having that like empty emptiness first as a kind of viewpoint from how we build our home to >> um even our email subscription lists like every every area of life we can I like the phrase reduce it to its maximum. You know, [laughter] >> that's beautiful. Actually, I got to say, Andre, just you know, having a little glimpse of your home, it expresses that beautifully. I can feel that intentionality with everything that's present that actually helps the space to show up. >> I agree with that. There's a, you know, there's that um Janice Joplin song, freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose. >> I think it's really true. Freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose. [snorts] >> You know, I remember the first time I went to a retreat with my Japanese master um Yamada Rio Roshi. This was uh now nearly 20 years ago. Um I've been training with other my other teachers by then anyway and they were part of the same Zen world. Um and um he the first talk he gave you is saying you know the point of Zen is this that we're we're all busy trying to get the things we want so we feel okay and that's of course it's material things but it's also relationship it's sort of some status you know nice watch whatever but we're trying to acquire things to be okay the trouble with that is that we know we're liable to losing them. And at the end with death, we know we'll lose them. We're going to lose the nice house, the lovely relationship when we die. Zen's solution is not to adjust that a little bit and try to assuage it a little bit. No, Zen's solution is to realize that we never really had them to begin with. [laughter] I love I love the way that's phrased. There is this uh the old story of Socrates going through the market at Athens and just seeing so many vendors and so many things and saying who knew there were so many things in this world in which I do not need you know and like that's that's real power in my perspective and it's what you're speaking to in that level of freedom you know. >> Yeah. Uh it's and it's cool to be able to look at things from the many different lenses. Like I love the path of yani yoga to be able to intellectually walk through this. You can you can get there through the intellect. You can get there through your emotions and the devotional practice through the non-dual practices through through many different avenues. I think it's cool to also look at it from like the biological lens. How the sense of individuality which we so strongly held the presumption of before dissolves the more we realize we're inhaling what the trees are exhaling. They're inhaling what we're exhaling the m the mcelial network that you know makes life possible and uh it it keeps on like anchoring in this insight there that there actually is no strict demarcation line between self and other. >> Yes. And uh I know that you know part of why I love doing this podcast so much is because I get to talk with people that are steeped in various different disciplines that get to be an entry point to whoever it might resonate with. you know, Zen, I think, has been something that clearly in the way that it was brought to you, uh, just really resonated with your being. And there's so many amazing other traditions that resonate with people in different ways. And, uh, it's cool to be able to see the golden thread that weaves them all and how they're essentially speaking about the the same source of our true nature. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. I know in my own case I I actually have trained in different traditions as well that I found so rich and helpful and my first meditation path was uh transcendental meditation. >> Yeah. >> For five years or so. And I would have stuck with it. I loved it except that I happened to stumble into Zen through a friend. And I knew that Zen knew about that experience I'd had when I was 19. It was like front and center in Zen. That's that's what Zen is really deeply concerned with is helping us all come to a realization like that. And I'm sure I could have found that in TM. I just didn't. You know, it was very therapeutic and kind of almost medicinal for me. Man, I needed it. But in Zen, they talked about it explicitly. No, they talked about in poetic language that made it explicit. I knew oh my gosh they know about that and somehow it's central to what they're trying to express. So that's what got me to >> to find and then but since then yeah like I've done the janna training I done uh you know some vapassa some mindfulness >> skeptical philosophy and you know um and um I mean I did I was into the Greeks as a young man. I was my I read ancient Greek actually and I started a PhD in ancient Greek >> and so I had some grounding in the Greek philosophy and >> man they're wild beautiful [laughter] >> just one more note here on the importance of sadna of a practice of meditation as somebody who has you know founded the way app which is which is really beautiful the uh the necessity in this day and age is that having a practice like you said allows reality to kind of sneak in through the back door. Uh there's something inherently pleasant about the concentrated mind and the reality is we live in an age more than ever where it's we have so many ways to become distracted. >> Yeah. so much [snorts] technology and ideas about the world and things that are pulling us from the political lens that uh can if we allow it to pull us away from awareness of who we are and uh and so any other note there on how important it is for for many of us to cultivate a practice of meditation whether it's once a day whether it's twice a day and eventually it goes down deeper into these Janna states and where it dissolves into the awakening and it becomes less of again something you feel like you you know you need to do. I know for me early on it was much more like of a militant practice like I need to stick with this thing and then it you know sort of dissolves into less of a me doing a thing and it's part of the the way in which you are. uh but somebody who's obviously such a prolific meditation teacher through your app and through inerson retreats. Any words on the importance of cultivating a practice for everyone who's listening right now? >> Yeah, I mean one one way I used to think about it and I I still do and when I started out I got this was the sense of like you know basically I want to have a shower every day and my mind needs a shower. It needs hygiene and it's a kind of mental hygiene to um to check in with myself to give myself some space um to and I I could feel it as soon as I started meditating regularly. I got it. There's this kind of cleansing process that just a single sit, it may be a really distracted sit, but the fact that I sat still for 20 minutes or 10 minutes or whatever it is and was devoted to sort of not doing anything outwardly. Yeah, my mind might have been active. It doesn't actually matter. The fact that I sat still and was kind of dedicating that little period of my day to my life, not to my activities, to my existence as a being. That provides even if it's a very distracted sit, just a tiny grain of perspective, which is a kind of mental hygiene. And of course, if we're doing it daily with consistency, it just tiny tiny incrementally builds on itself. And that little grain of perspective over days, weeks, months, it grows into just a bit more awareness. And you just start to feel it and you miss it if you don't do a day. And um I don't know. I mean, I know there's a lot of nice things course people do that are kind of meditative. Going for a walk in the woods, probably great to do the sauna and coal plant, you know, whatever that there are things we can do that are in the same territory. But the particular value of meditation is that it's it's you're not doing anything. It's really just inviting being to recognize your own being, you know, and that's that has a particular kind of um wholesomeness that you in yourself. You're sort of you're giving yourself an opportunity daily to gradually and then sometimes suddenly, you know, discover that you've you've got your very own being is already okay. you know, whatever turbulence and trouble maybe in in your own personal world, you know, in your in your professional world, in in the in the collective that we're living in, there's still the raw fact of your own being that is deep down is okay. And meditation is helping us align with that and getting to know that. So, it's a Um I mean I see this you know with so so thousands and thousands of students you know that it does actually work [laughter] but but you kind of need to be consistent and it's far better to do 10 minutes a day than half an hour once a week. Far far far far better. You know that's you know in in a way if I just talk about the app for a moment. Yeah, >> that's why we built it was we wanted to help people get into the daily habit and we thought that our radical thing on our app was that there's no choice. You you do not have a choice about what to do. You follow this pathway and it's going to train you in these different ins that we've been talking about in mindfulness, in connection, in absorption and hopefully in awakening. and we kind of circle round through them these four aspects of practice going deeper and deeper as we go. And what our kind of philosophy was that if you know about these different benefits, it's a motivator is to know that there are these different things that can happen and they really do happen over time. So it actually makes sense to be on a journey that's training you in these different aspects of practice. So um number one you know there's fruits down the road even though we're talking about they're not down the road actually these things do develop over time. Number two, we we know that we know a journey that makes sense that's logically develops and is consistent and you incrementally develop your practice and we can train you on it, you know, and it's not like you open up and there's a hundred different courses you can do. No, there's one pathway. And if you just consistently follow it, you're going to start seeing different benefits in each of these different dimensions of practice development, of spiritual development that a human being can go through. So, it's it's super simple, but it's actually deep. And and we think we're still the first app that is doing this. It's not a library. It's a pathway and people you know the feedback has been insane. Um and and our growth has been I mean really really awesome for and it's very heartwarming to see that people are resonating with it in in the kinds of numbers that they are. But anyway I have I gone off track now I think I'm still on track. This is this is this is about the path the sadena the the cultivation which is valuable in and of itself and it might open us up to the realization that's always here >> hand in hand there I would love to get your perspective on as you awaken to these realizations you increase your sensitivity so too does your capacity for noticing beauty in life >> I'm so glad you bring that up. I think beauty is critical and actually that's another aspect of Zen that really drew me. It totally values beauty. Um I don't know whether we want this but I've I I'm a poet. I could share a poem. >> I would love that. Yeah. [clears throat] >> Yeah. Why don't I just share um why don't I share a poem? Okay. This this one's called Sweeping the Yard, >> which is kind of a Zen thing. [laughter] >> Daily chores, elevated as, you know, sublime, you know, sweeping the yard. Sweeping the yard. When I sweep the yard in the morning, I don't do it for myself because I like it tidy. I don't even do it for the yard's sake because it enjoys being clean. I do it for the shy one. I do it for the shy one who lives inside me, who loves this world better than I ever will, who has nothing to prove, whose innocence is beyond understanding. and who I only ever know in glimpses that leave me breathless with longing with hope that goodness is still possible is still somehow present in this world. His sweetness shines on the earth so the earth loves itself again. He knocks away all my ideas about who and what I should be. So, we pick up the broom again, he and I, and we send the old leaves skittering across the patio and the dust smoking over the tiles. And we make the little heaps that we gather in. This is how he wakes up. This is how his wakefulness turns our little yard into the bright place I call home. This is how he wakes up. This is how his wakefulness turns our little yard into the bright place I call home. >> Beautiful indeed. sweeping the yard. >> I found poetry obviously has this capacity to speak to reality in a way that pros can't quite make contact with, right? So, such as the nature of metaphor, analogies, and story. Um, and I uh I I want to I want to continue to get your perspective on the heart of that poem as it as it relates to our ability to notice beauty in life. >> Yeah. >> Like it it rad the capacity and sensitivity radically changes the more that we start to get beyond the own our own dramas in our head. >> Yeah. And that of course has many different implications on what we think we need to do, should do, must do in order to extract joy, beauty, love from the external world, right? You're inherently recognizing it in the very thing in front of you as you. Uh so any other words on beauty? Yeah. It's like, you know, it's it's like if we can unplug from our surface life where we're desperately trying to manage things, you know, we we've got some notion of a this line that we're living, this linear time line that we're on, and we got to get to that, and we got to avoid all these other things we don't want. If we can get that's just a construction. And if somehow we just drop a tiny bit below the surface of that, we find beauty here and now waiting to show itself. And you can find it in the strangest of places. You know, I've found it on a freeway just driving along and oh, I I just want to get to the exit, you know, 50 miles away and get to my destination or something. No, just sitting in this vehicle, the hills, the other cars with other people in it, the shine on the surface of the road, the shine on the steering wheel, it's actually all pouring into existence, being being this very moment here and now. And it's beautiful. It's not exclusively nature. You know, of course, nature is a obvious place where it's easier for us to find beauty. Um, but I think the key is that it's, you know, beauty is in the eye of the beholder, that it's here to be seen. And it's it's just whether we can just get that little bit of release from our attachment to the surface life. Just drop an inch or a foot or a meter deeper. And we find that there's this part of us that intrinsically recognizes beauty in the world. >> I find it amazing that we do have the experience of beauty, you know, cuz it's like what's the evolutionary advantage of that? I mean, maybe I guess there could be a reproductive one for sure, but but but we don't just limit it to other potential reproductive mates. We see it in the world. Why? There's a there's a great nature film I once saw where there's this line of like four or five big gorillas sitting staring at a bush. They're just sitting there captivated. And what is it? It's a little beetle, bright green, traveling from leaf to leaf across this bush. And all of them are just staring at it [laughter] like is that you know primate experience of beauty? I don't know but it sort of looks like it could be. >> I think there stories of chimpanzees going to a waterfall and just gazing at it. It's a special place and they recognize it. You know, I think we've got an we've got an inherent capacity to to recognize something about our relationship with this world uh and appreciate our our participation in it and it shows up as beauty and I think it's it's kind of important you know they say that the journey of Zen actually it began in India where the fundamental question was was what is all this it moved to China where the fundamental question in the Confucian society of the day was how to govern how to organize society harmoniously and you can see some of that reflected in like cos are somehow trying to recognize our participation in the wholeness of experience or something like that then it goes to Japan among other places but and in Japan And the question was what is beauty? And there's so many ways tea ceremony you know calligraphy landscape painting true it came from China as well but in Japan it got it got refined even further. Beauty matters you know and it doesn't mean being able to buy expensive things. That's the beauty of this world. Standing in the sunset, looking at that reddish hue on the green hill that develops. Uh being out, I walk I almost every morning I go out early and watch dawn come and it always blows my mind. How can something this beautiful be no matter what the disasters in the world going on and the crazy politics and the minations of war and trade war and all the things going on you know there's still this beauty and it's totally free nobody can buy it nobody can sell it nobody can own it you know and yeah I live in a beautiful place Santa Fe right now but I see the beauty of dawn kind of wherever I am walk out before it comes and just see the early light arriving the clouds the way they look at the end of night with light coming shadows suddenly appearing it's it's a display of just such extravagant beauty and you know and you can't buy it and it's kind of amazing to me that the gift that's given of beauty every day. Yeah, it goes from this experience we have maybe with only uh the natural world of like a big waterfall or the northern lights or a extravagant sunset that lights up the clouds. uh to increasing our sensitivity to the for me in the tea ceremonies, you know, it's like the this the smoke that comes off the cup and the and the tea leaves that are swirling around at the bottom and >> something so simple, so small can be filled with so much. Yes, that's a that's an incredibly obviously beautiful place to live life from because it it changes your orientation towards life when you move from that place of fulfillment and recognition of beauty and it also I think rewires uh our notion of ethics because I think that historically like ethics are something that needs to be taught from the outside in rather as seen as an extension of yourself. Like when you experience the self as other, you don't need to be taught to not harm it. And in a similar way, you don't need to be taught to cut off your own hand, right? >> Yes. >> Um and so I think sometimes some of these teachings can be perceived. We're like, okay, then what about all the horrific things that are happening on the world and the list of all the corrupt leaders that are coming out and the genocides and all these things? >> Yeah. And um and at least in my experience, and I'm curious to hear yours, this insight does not remove you from involvement towards very needed humane rights and action in the world. Uh but rather it can actually allow you to meet it more fully and be more equipped. >> That's beautifully put. I I totally agree. I think it they've you know they they often say in Buddhism like the two wings of practice are wisdom which can mean insights in all kinds of ways such as we've been talking about and compassion and you know we might say realization and love you know and wisdom and love you know and that love is the call that precisely as you've said that comes from our recognition of our nonseparateness This the beautiful thing about these realization experiences when they happen is that you can't get one without realizing that you're part of it. It's not like you see it the way you see other things. It's not like you know there's a beautiful painting now I'm seeing it or you know there's that power station actually and in the sunset it's looking so beautiful. It's not it's not like that. If you're part of it, you're implicated. So that with that said, it is exactly natural that you start to feel love for the world and and actually you feel the sufferings of the world more um intimately, but you're more resourced. You got a capacity >> for the because the heart is open and and compassion is a motivating thing. They talk about the difference between there's some research on this between empathy and compassion. Empathy is feeling with which is obviously a beautiful thing to do but it's not motivating. Compassion is motivating energizing. Compassion actually is a positive emotion. Yeah, we care about the suffering that that we may see going on, but we're motivated to help and that's a positive thing >> if that makes sense. So >> yeah, >> I think that's intrinsically what all of this is about. >> I've heard you talk about the distinction between uh breaking your heart, opening your heart, and the whole heart. >> And I think that goes hand in hand here cuz there's no shortage of heartbreaking things when we look turn on the news. And then our in our own very like, you know, various moments of our life, we're going to have those moments where our heart breaks. >> Yeah. >> And >> I would love to to just hear your thoughts on the >> Yeah. on the progression there. >> Yeah. [snorts] Actually, I'm tempted uh to offer another shorter poem if I may, which is about heartbreak and how well, you'll see that it's how what a what a difference how it can change us in actually be, you know, they talk about post-traumatic growth and uh I think heartbreak can be taken that way. This poem is called frozen lake and um the image in it is of a frozen lake. Um you know that we can walk across or maybe fall through. So that's that's the notion in the poem. And it's got a little epigraph which like a little quote at the top which is from a Sufi poet and wise fellow called Sheik Abu Sahed who called himself nobody son of nobody. [laughter] And the quote is Allah says God says the broken ones are my beloved frozen lake the broken ones are my beloved. When I think of friends who've been through the worst, through the dread love lives with, through the terrible fear anxiety can only dream of. I feel sorry for the rest. For those who had it all as they had hoped, who crossed the frozen lake from one side to the other, never guessing the great dark beneath. But those for whom the lake cracked and opened, who fell into its unspeakable night while still walking upright in the light of this world, whose hearts burst and met its waters. For them there is no consolation, nor is any needed. Nor is any needed. That's about being cracked open, about the heart breaking and therefore breaking open. It's really about in a sense trusting grief. You know, grief is a thing all of us naturally don't want to feel because it's so painful. When we have the cause of grief in our personal lives, people we love very much going through very hard times, losing people, we may have grief. Some people have climate change grief. Some people have what they call poly crisis grief that the the world is in all these different crises, crises folding upon one another. Why not? Why wouldn't we have grief around it, you know? But if we trust grief rather than try to avoid it, it can be a doorway that opens us up even more. So the broken heart can become an open heart. In other words, the the pain of heartbreak if we don't resist it, if we surrender, it can open the heart. And then, yeah, the heart's more tender and it's going to feel more, but it's open. And when the heart is open, we're alive. We're really alive. We're really feeling this life. You know if a life without feeling it's not a full life and when our heart is open we know sort of this is my real life you know and that leads to a whole heart we become wholehearted and I don't know that we can get to wholehearted I don't know without heartbreak maybe we can and I I don't know. But for me, heartbreak has been maybe it's been the great teacher, you know, in different ways at different points in my life and I've been very resistant to it. I've been partially open to it or I've been wide open to it. >> It seems like there is this inherent feeling that breaking open our heart there. It's like it's a death of sorts. And so much of our fear in life is the fear of death of some some form, whether it's our physical body, whether it's an identity, uh [snorts] who we thought we were, what we thought something would be, a relationship or family situation. And uh I'm curious how you think about death and and heartbreak and how they go hand in hand. >> Yeah, I think that's a beautiful point, a beautiful observation. I guess I feel that we go through many deaths, you know, maybe some say we dying a death each moment, you know. Um I know that I've I've I've been, you know, looking back on my life, I see, yeah, there've been chapters. There have been chapters and in a certain sense the time each chapter ended it was a kind of death. Um there's there's also you know I I think I I referenced this a tight a t a little bit before but there was a moment in my zen training when I definitely seemed to go through some kind of something that was more of a kind of annihilation than I'd ever been through before. And in that moment, the very one who'd been seeking enlightenment or seeking awakening just just just was totally gone. And along with that one, everything was just gone. It was a there was just nothing actually. It was really and there was nobody seeing the nothing. There was no seeing of the nothing. There was just nothing. And in that nothing I only recognized it after it was like I went through this. It wasn't an experience in a sense. It was a kind of ending of experience and then after it kind of very disoriented sort of pieces started coming back and and and for days afterwards the only thing I could say was thank you. And obviously I didn't physically die clearly, but there was a more um thorough kind of death of something than I'd ever experienced before or since. Um and it was a turning point in my practice. It was it was after that that I I was no longer sort of in it, out of it, in it, out of it. you know, I I got it. I lost it. I got that was over with that moment because the person who had been trying to have a good practice and be more awakened and recognize sometimes I'm more I'm awake now again. Oh, I'm more deluded now. That person had gone and and there just was no need to try to be more this or more that or anything because that was all gone. So that that was to me that was I guess that was the real fruit of my Zen training for me was that actually happened and until that moment I'd always thought yeah clearly you know I'm really lucky I've been graced with some of these moments of awakening you know and and I've had great teachers and but I'm never going to be like my teachers because I still default to or I at least repeatedly come back to this traumatized mess, you know, maybe slightly less of a mess, but you know, somewhat somewhat prone to anxiety, stressing about stuff, ftting about stuff. I keep coming back to that even though I can also recognize um you know something boundless and beautiful and vast. But after that moment, um, it wasn't like that anymore. It was no longer back and forth. It was no longer wanting some state over another state. It just was sort of gone. And I know that there's I don't really want to claim anything with this cuz I'm, you know, still a mess. You know, I'm still doing my work. But but it was really decisively different. And I think um there's a saying in Zen that the real way is beyond um being caught in the many things and being awakened. The real way is beyond both of them. It's not about one or the other. It's beyond and includes both. And there's a there is this is um this is important for that cart track metaphor as well. It's not one or the other. It's both, you know. And they say that first there's the 10 trillion things and then we see that they're all empty and one, but that's not yet the end of the path. The and maybe sure there's no end, but the two the 10 trillion and the empty oneness, they're exactly the same thing. And until they're exactly the same thing, there's some kind of duality between them. You know, initially there's the duality of everything being separate from me and everything separate from other things. With awakening that duality is gone. We discover the nonduality. Somehow all things are encompassed by one great awareness nonduel. But we'll still usually most of us have a duality between recognizing that and being back in the old view. Back and forth, back and forth. I want to get that all the time. Keep practicing. And eventually the second duality between awakened awareness and non-awwakened awareness that can be gone. That's that that's that's very very beautiful. It's very very beautiful to find that there's this, you know, un it's unnameable. It's indeterminate. Um, you could say it's totally empty, but on the other hand, it's all things. You could say it's all of this just as it is, but on the other hand, it's utterly empty. And you don't you can't choose between them. It's it's it's it's so beautiful and um for me, you know, in so far as there's still the thread of biography that I can recognize, that was a total turning point to somehow drop into that. Again, it wasn't an experience I had. It was somehow an ending of experience. and and it's all been a little different since then. [laughter] >> Yeah. >> Say that. Yeah. >> I think it goes hand in hand with the uh sometimes often overused analogy of the chrysalis and the caterpillar and the butterfly, right? Like there is the >> there is the death, the transmutation, the ending of one form we're taking into this goo of unknown, of nobodyiness. Yes. into whatever is going to emerge next trusting that life is way more intelligent than we could ever you know choreograph in our own minds >> uh that it's that it knows what it's doing. I also think about the uh sometimes the paradoxical contemplation on the progressive path of awakening versus the direct path. you can have direct insight and yet it seems like we have this meditation practice like we're it seems like we're doing this to get somewhere >> and uh I love the the Zen phrasing of uh water heats gradually and boils suddenly you know that uh >> like we have these little moments and these many awakenings and ahas and realizations and insights into reality until the point where the water boils and then it it it stops becoming a duality that we return to. Yeah, there's there's there's so much here. I feel like we could talk for days and days and I'm sure this is the first of many conversations that we'll will to come. I'm curious though as we start to wrap up, take your time to think on it if you if you want. Uh but if you had 60 seconds to share a core message, one truth to the heart of humanity, what would you what comes to mind? >> You are love. You are love. You know that movie? I don't know how big it is in the US, but there's a UK movie called Love Actually. I don't know whether you know that one. It was >> Yeah, I think it might have. >> It's It's got It's got some stars in it, you know. I think I can't remember their names. Hugh Grant's in it, I think, and Emma Thompson and some of those British stars and and a few American stars as well. love actually. And I've always thought, why is it called love actually? And it suddenly came to me maybe it's the answer to a question. What really matters? Love actually. Or what's it all about? Love actually. What you know what is our purpose? Love actually. Like it's almost like we're reluctant somehow to say it. Sort of tiptoe around the word love because of course it can mean so many things and it's got so many associations and but fundamentally what if what in the end we really are is love. It's been a beautiful through line throughout this whole conversation. And I think conversations and messages like you share so often about our true nature being that original love is is it's really something that we need to hear, I think, now more than ever. Um, as there's just increasing moments of depression, anxiety, meaning crisis, loneliness, epidemics, we're constantly reminded of our fracturedness, our fragmentedness, our separateness. So, uh, yeah, I highly recommend anybody who's listening, if they want to stay connected with Henry's work, check out the Way app. Uh, go on that on that journey of those insights and meditations. Uh any other thoughts you want to share and where people can stay connected with you and your work? >> Yeah, I mean if anybody's curious, I got this book that's a kind of storyline of my own path of practice called one blade of grass. >> Um and there's the book original love which um is speaking to a lot of this as well. And um yeah, the wayapp.com has all you need on the app. Um and uh but above all, you know, try to try to just give yourself 10 minutes a day of stillness and quiet, you know, and if if if our app helps you with that, fantastic. If another app does, fantastic. If no app does, fantastic. Just being still and quiet every day for that little bit of gradual lessening of stress, softening the body, letting go. It's it's it'll change a life for sure. And if more of us are doing it, it'll change the world. Henry, thank you so much. It's been a pleasure to connect. I'm looking forward to hopefully joining you in meditation on some of your retreats one day. uh diving more into your work, maybe pouring tea for you. Would love that. >> I would absolutely love that, Andre. It's been a great great joy and and honor, you know, privilege to get time with you like this. Thank you. >> Likewise, everybody who's tuning in to this episode. Uh I'm curious. Let us know in what ways this episode has resonated with you. I think there are various conversations on this podcast that feel uh they have like a different energetic kind of resonance to them and um they're speaking to aspects of self beneath the analytical and they're more of heart shares and I think that was self-evident in the way that you shared and also through your poetry. So big fan big fan of this episode. Uh and until next time be well. Take care. Hallelujah. [music]